-=-=-=-=- LINES FOR Douglass: -=-=-=-=-
Douglass: I am a placeholder for a training dummy
Douglass: I thought I was the hero...
Douglass: If I had a chance, we did something wrong.
Douglass: What happened?
Douglass: Okay, that's enough.
Douglass: I'll be taking that ring back.
Douglass: I'm guessing that's me?
Douglass: Excuse me?
Douglass: I... will consider it.
Douglass: May I have my stuff back?
Douglass: Not anymore!
Douglass: Destroying the monster at the bottom of these things usually puts a stop to that.
Douglass: Yes, but I wasn't feeling like myself at the time.
Douglass: Aw don't go spoiling their fun kid.[br]You did good.
Douglass: Thanks kid. Looks like you did a pretty good job with it.
Douglass: Yep, how'd you know?
Douglass: You got it.[br]Usually it's not such a big deal. Something was different here.
Douglass: Well, as a fellow warrior I thank you for carrying on where I could not.
Douglass: Well, I've been in these caves before. Always a bit dizzy afterwards.[br]Never quite this bad though.
Douglass: You are a skilled fighter.[br]You could do quite well for yourself helping people.
Douglass: Now, if you wouldn't mind giving me back my ring of power.
Douglass: I feel like something was left undone.
Douglass: Maybe if I head back I can find it.
Douglass: Why are you going back?
Douglass: Also no reason.
Douglass: Well, I just wanted to go back in.
Douglass: Hah! This is so easy it almost feels like I'm cheating![br]Almost.
Douglass: This still isn't the end?
Douglass: Another one down...
Douglass: Wait, that wasn't the final boss? [br]And why is it suddenly even colder in here?
;Douglass: I understand you have a problem.
Douglass: This isn't the first cursed hole in the ground I've come across.
Douglass: The folks from way back when liked to leave them all over the place. Each one a powder keg buried under a metropolis.
Douglass: Those sound like philosopher questions. I'm just the sellsword.
Douglass: I don't care why, I don't even care how. I just know that it stops if you hit it hard enough.
Douglass: Next time that door opens I'll take that place apart.
Douglass: Don't worry. It'll pick me. These things always do.
Douglass: They didn't become craters. That's good enough for me.
Douglass: About time.
Douglass: Hey, don't mess with this chest.
Douglass: It's where my magic ring sends the stuff I loot.
-=-=-=-=- LINES FOR Sara: -=-=-=-=-
Sara: The hero is gone... What will we do now?
Sara: Aaaaah! The weapons![br]Where did we put the weapons?! 
Sara: Oh t-that's fine sir, not looking for any preferential treatment.
Sara: Well, I guess it's because he really took a chance when he hired me.
Sara: How was I... what was I suppsoed to...?
Sara: If I had a chance, we did something wrong.
Sara: Well... thank you for rescuing us all the same.
Sara: um, yes?
Sara: You know, I kinda liked that old deer head you had in here.
Sara: Yeah, it gave it kind of a rustic charm. Like there was a story to it.
Sara: These ones just... give me the heebie jeebies.
Sara: Would you like another spice cake?
Sara: So, I wanted to thank you. None of us would have made it if it weren't for you.
Sara: Oh don't try that false modesty on me Mr...[br]Say, I don't think I know your name.
Sara: So Steve, shall we go to the celibration?
Sara: I appreciate it all the same.
Sara: What should we do with all the daggers?
Sara: I'm fine, really!
Sara: Just, thought I'd go see the doctor is all.
Sara: ...
Sara: No.
Sara: Can anything be done?
Sara: Only if she doesn't bring Josephine.
Sara: Oh, I'm alright.
Sara: I'm, uh, going to see if the doctor is still doing discount amputations...
Sara: Is that an arm?
Sara: It's not that.
Sara: I've just been feeling odd, and though the cave might...
Sara: It could happen at any time...[br]I have to be ready.
Sara: I should have come down here a long time ago.
Sara: I've got to keep moving... but so heavy.
Sara: You know, this isn't so bad.
Sara: W-why does it feel so cold?
(if monster kill) Sara: They... they got him.
(if time up) Sara: He's gone...
Sara: They... they got him.
Sara: Douglass barely came in time...
Sara: He's gone...
Sara: Douglass barely came in time...
-=-=-=-=- LINES FOR McDermit: -=-=-=-=-
McDermit: Bandits or curses, we will do our duty. All of us are ready to be chosen.
McDermit: Is this how it's going to end?[br]We just stand here and watch as the civilians are sent to their doom?
McDermit: Don't worry Ma'm, we'll take care of things.
McDermit: Maybe if we stand closer to the entrance?
McDermit: No... Sara was quite far off.
McDermit: I did my best...
McDermit: If I had a chance, we did something wrong.
McDermit: Todd, we appreciate the help, but—
McDermit: Aaaargh!
McDermit: I'm not sure. That last ice cider was a tad, crunchy.
McDermit: Maybe next time.
McDermit: Kind of all the same story though right?
McDermit: There you are! You ran out of there before we could thank you!
McDermit: Some of them are armor.
McDermit: It's just a bit bright out.[br]How long was I down there?
McDermit: Thank you sir. We couldn't have made it without you.
McDermit: ...
McDermit: Pact? Were the rest of you talking to someone down there?
McDermit: Never thought I'd make it this far.
McDermit: So heavy, but I must go on.
McDermit: At first it was too cold. Now it's too hot.
McDermit: It feels like my armor is frosting over...
McDermit: We can wait for someone else?
McDermit: Don't talk like—hey! He said not to mess with that!
McDermit: We can wait for someone else?
McDermit: Don't talk like—hey! He said not to mess with that!
-=-=-=-=- LINES FOR Todd: -=-=-=-=-
<Creepy Laughter>
Hmmn... <In a haughty, evil overlordy sort of way.>
Hey. <As in, "can I talk to you?">
Don't worry... <Creepy>
Is that... <Excited and Terrified>
<Maniacal Laughter>
You! <Assusatory or demanding>
Dad...?
Hmph! <Sullen and Pouty>
Hey! <in an annoyed, picked-on way>

Todd: It does not matter. When my time comes I will find my way to the leader of this place, and join in his dark pact.
Todd: Mwahaha!
Todd: Don't worry. I'm sure you'll serve in the new world as well.
Todd: You're watching the animals, right? Could I borrow a goat?
Todd: What does she know...
Todd: Oh? Wondering at the source of my power?
Todd: Dark lord...? Is that... you...?
Todd: Ah hahahaha!
Todd: I have passed the test.
Todd: I am worthy!
Todd: You brought my destiny within reach.
Todd: You have, old man.
Todd: This wasn't a rescue.
Todd: You, guard! I have a task for you.
Todd: As I was saying, you will watch the entrance.[br]Make certain that none enter.
Todd: And you, maid!
Todd: You will bring me food, until I am beyond the need for such things.
Todd: He serves as the warning for the rest of you.
Todd: Now go, I have work to do.
Todd: I'm not Pendlton.
Todd: Dad?
Todd: I'm sorry, I was wrong. I thought...
Todd: Could you be more of a dweeb?
Todd: Okay, you're doing this on purpose now.
Todd: I wasn't trying to help. I was chasing dumb shadows.
Todd: I didn't like things before.
Todd: If people can overlook the dumb stuff I've done.
Todd: I thought you weren't taking credit?
Todd: No! Stay back! I'm fine...[br]Excellent, in fact.
Todd: Oh dark lord, I have failed you!
Todd: Evil?
Todd: Oh, you're here too?
Todd: Oh, no reason. You? 
Todd: Good.
Todd: Hey, it's boarded up!
Todd: None of your business.
Todd: You've all felt it haven't you?
Todd: The power of the dark lord.
Todd: Call it whatever you like.
Todd: Quiet you! We no longer have need of your moralizing.
Todd: We are beyond such things![br]Our pact gives us strength!
Todd: Silence! I will show you the power I have been given!
Todd: How... did you?
Todd: No... I'm right. This will finally show that.
Todd: You can't do that!
Todd: Worry not about petty things like "good" and "evil" for we will be beyond those.
Todd: Follow, or don't, it's your choice.
Todd: The brighter the light, the darker the shadow.
Todd: The shadows are my ally.[br]... And the earth too, I guess.
Todd: With this they'll pay! They'll all pay!
Todd: Yes! A dark gift!
-=-=-=-=- LINES FOR Norma: -=-=-=-=-
Norma: I drew the short straw. Why are you still here?
Norma: You killed a wolf when you were twelve, you got this.
Norma: I'm not looking forward to sorting the animals back out when people come back.
Norma: Maybe we can spare a few steaks to get spirits up a bit.
Norma: Not after last time I don't.
Norma: If Patrick got the word out? Maybe.
Norma: You're really going to fight for us?
Norma: At least you have confidence in us...
Norma: Hey, could I get some wood to fix a fence?
Norma: I can't stop here...
Norma: Yeah, I'm fine.
Norma: Sure? I mean, what was the big deal anyway?
Norma: Least I usually just had to deal with them one at a time.
Norma: It's not like it was a stampede or anything.
Norma: Oye! Hero boy!
Norma: Really appreaciate you coming by and all.
Norma: But maybe you should be looking into a new line of work.
Norma: I'm just sayin'
Norma: If any random cowgirl can bust monster heads better than you, mabye hero work ain't what you're cut out for.
Norma: Sure, just don't get yourself in trouble.
Norma: If anybody needs me I'll be out making sure the sheep don't drown themselves or something.
Norma: He's been looking for any more loot that might be hiding down there.
Norma: Last I saw him he was practically digging up floor tiles.
Norma: We're fine.
Norma: You missed a good party.
Norma: Just hungry.[br]Really, weirdly, hungry.
Norma: Last name?
Norma: Well, no name no potatoes.
Norma: Do we really have to do this? Can't we just relax?
Norma: Paper pushing makes him happy?
Norma: I don't remember a pact.
Norma: Well, That's all the cattle taken care of.
Norma: Nothing left to do but wait.
Norma: Might as well try to look busy.
Norma: It just feels like things are falling apart.
Norma: If I'm not careful I'll fly right out of here.
Norma: The force is crushing. I just need to make sure it crushes them.
Norma: I've got to keep this under control.
Norma: I feel like I should be numb, but I feel more alive than ever.
Norma: He's talking to them now.
Norma: Do you really think he can do it?
Norma: How much longer do we have now?
Norma: Maybe? Can't you be more exact?
Norma: We only lose one person a day. Can't we just count how many of us are left?
Norma: So, less than a month then.
Norma: And if nobody does?
-=-=-=-=- LINES FOR Derringer: -=-=-=-=-
Derringer: I'm afraid these things take time.[br]I can't risk cracking the blade.
Derringer: I'm afraid it's longer than ten minutes.
Derringer: I'm afraid I must be going.
Derringer: I'm afraid I haven't any goods for the mayor today.
Derringer: I'm afraid I don't have time to fix bits and bridles at the moment.
Derringer: I'm afraid I'm a bit behind on my regular tasks. What with all these armor and weapon jobs.
Derringer: I'm afraid these daggers aren't going to repair themselves.
Derringer: I'm afraid I haven't seen Sir Meyster's sword lately.
Derringer: I'm... Afraid...
Derringer: Oh, I'm afraid I didn't hear you.
Derringer: I'm afraid I'm not one for crowds.
Derringer: Besides, I had a job to finish.[br]Don't like leaving things undone.
Derringer: I'm afraid there are a lot of things you can do with a good sword.
Derringer: I'm afraid it will be just a few more minutes.
Derringer: I'm afraid the look of the scoring from wyvern blood took longer than I expected.
Derringer: I'm afraid Malrak slew the wyvern in book four. So it needs to show the damage from the battle with his half-brother in book three.
Derringer: We're the ones you didn't cut down on your way through that place.
Derringer: I do still have to finish your blade.
Derringer: I'm afraid he's right.[br]These aren't like anything on the market.
Derringer: My teeth hurt...
Derringer: I don't care who did it. So long as it got done.
Derringer: I haven't seen Tradallian typology like that since—
Derringer: I'm afraid there are some repairs to be made, and a few things have gone missing.
Derringer: I'm afraid steel will channel this too well!
Derringer: I'm afraid I'll smash them too small with this.
Derringer: I'm afraid I may not need my forge after this.
Derringer: I'm afraid this power will corrupt.
-=-=-=-=- LINES FOR Malvardius: -=-=-=-=-
-=-=-=-=- LINES FOR Mara: -=-=-=-=-
Mara: Uh huh.
Mara: Uh huh.
Mara: Woah there sugar, don't go tempting fate like that, remember what happened to Douglass?
Mara: It may be cynical, but the impending doom has been great for business.
Mara: My mother always said despair is the best seasoning.
Mara: Which is why I left home at such a young age.
Mara: I'm glad to see you're taking a break. It can't be healthy working like you do all day.
Mara: I swear, if that junk peddler asks for another discount...
Mara: You don't look old enough for me to serve you a drink hun.
Mara: Sometimes I wonder if that knight of yours is sneaking a drink now and then...
Mara: Hey kid. You really look up to that old man don'tcha?
Mara: I wouldn't be asking him to swing that axe. Trust me on this one.
Mara: Ungh... Why did i do this sober?
Mara: I don't know about you lot, but I'm in the mood for another round!
Mara: Alright ya ruffians, who's up for trying one of my new ales?
Mara: You won't have to worry about that on this batch.
Mara: Finally got a still tough enough to run on lava.[br]Let's see what came out of it!
Mara: If you're worried about your tender tummy I'll throw in a shot of green fountain gin for a chaser.
Mara: What? The one with the missing antler?
Mara: What do you mean? These trophies have stories to them.
Mara: Don't worry, hun. I'm sure you'll get used to 'em.
Mara: This calls for a cellibration! Let's head back to the tavern.
Mara: Unless you louts let it fall apart while I was gone.
Mara: Let's talk over some food, hun.
Mara: I'll drink to that! Come on, my treat.
Mara: You will?
Mara: We've got enough of them, how about folks get one with every purchase?
Mara: Just feeling a bit woozy
Mara: Alright, well if my bar's still standing I say we get some drinks.
Mara: I don't know about you all, but I could use one.
Mara: Alright! Let's hear it for... well... don't think we ever got your name.
Mara: Would you like a sweetroll?
Mara: Oh come now, you have to try some of our signature sweetrolls.
Mara: Sheesh, what's with him?
Mara: I do not remember agreeing to that...
Mara: Can I interest you in the house special?
Mara: 
Mara: Sounds good to me. I'm so hungry I could eat...
Mara: Just about anything really.
Mara: How long was I down there anyway?
Mara: No, it isn't.
Mara: Heh, makes my hair stand on end.
Mara: Feel like I'm becomin' a rock monster myself.
Mara: Belly full of fire ain't nothing new.
Mara: Feels like my fingers are gonna freeze off...
-=-=-=-=- LINES FOR Devon: -=-=-=-=-
Devon: Furs for sale! Get your furs!
Devon: Man, quiet town.
Devon: But wait? What is even going on...?
Devon: Now just what was all this about anyway?
Devon: I think I'd like to get some questions answered first.
Devon: Who are you?
Devon: I wasn't about to just kill people! I thought you'd been shoved down there too.
Devon: You! Just what did you—
Devon: WHAT IS THIS PLACE?!
Devon: That... what was that place?
Devon: What curse? I just got shoved into a cave full of monsters!
Devon: How was it? It was terrible! And now there's a curse?
Devon: Didn't I see you down there?
Devon: What about the people down there?[br]Were they pushed in too?
Devon: But that means the ones that were...
Devon: Fine.
Devon: Fine alright? I'll hear you out.
Devon: What have I done?
Devon: I can't... I can't.
Devon: Just stay away! I never should have come here!
Devon: You weren't expecting me to?
Devon: I didn't venture, I was shoved!
Devon: Explain what?
Devon: You tried to kill me before I took two steps into your town!
Devon: And you didn't think to put up a sign?
Devon: Oh I don't think so. I'm getting out of this crazy place.
Devon: I'm fine... thanks. Just going to get as far from here as I can.
Devon: Who are you people?
Devon: Excuse me?
Devon: I don't know anything about a pact. I just... guess I don't have anything in this town, so why not go back in?
Devon: I'm not from around here, is this some kind of...?
Devon: Will I ever be normal again?
Devon: Can't let this slow me down...
Devon: I feel like I can hardly contain it.
Devon: The darkest nights have nothing on this.
-=-=-=-=- LINES FOR Pendleton: -=-=-=-=-
Pendleton: You are wasting your time.
Pendleton: I worry about Sir Meyster sometimes.
Pendleton: I get that a lot.
Pendleton: Get in the cave!
Pendleton: Get in the cave! GET IN THE CAVE! GETINTHECAVE!
Pendleton: Yes sire.
Pendleton: Of course, sire.
Pendleton: We shall see, sire.
Pendleton: Don't worry, I'm sure Sir Meyster will save us, eventually.
Pendleton: Thank you for looking after Sir Meyster's steed. He will need it.[br]Eventually.
Pendleton: Perhaps I could be of service? I am trained to look after horses.
Pendleton: Though I am sure Sir Meyster will call for me. Eventually.
Pendleton: His biggest regret is that he never slew a dragon.
Pendleton: Why did he have to hear about this curse?
Pendleton: We can hardly blame him for that now can we?
Pendleton: Well, Sir Meyster used to say that failure teaches us more than success, and that wisdom is more valuable than heroism.
Pendleton: Maybe he'll remember that.[br]Eventually.
Pendleton: It sounds like I'm not really the one you want to talk to.
Pendleton: Sir Meyster will come to my rescue. Eventually...
Pendleton: Ah yes, sorry about that.
Pendleton: There was not time to explain.
Pendleton: It was a group effort.[br]I merely carried the torch passed to me by others.
Pendleton: Not right now, excuse me.
Pendleton: I do not want to be their hero.
Pendleton: Because I'm just going to let them down someday.
Pendleton: ...
Pendleton: So, what do I do now?
Pendleton: I do not think it is that simple.
Pendleton: I'm done.
Pendleton: No, I'm done.
Pendleton: Here, have the sword.
Pendleton: I've been planning to vanquish evil my whole life.
Pendleton: Now I've done it.
Pendleton: And I'm done.
Pendleton: Here, might as well take the ring too.
Pendleton: If anything, it's prefect for you.
Pendleton: You can run fast, do some party tricks, feel young again.[br]Feel like you matter again.
Pendleton: I'm... I'm going to go.[br]Find a job where I don't have to kill anyone.
Pendleton: I should tell him I didn't mean all that...
Pendleton: Eventually.
Pendleton: Yes?
Pendleton: Yes?
Pendleton: Yes, I suppose I did.
Pendleton: Losing?
Pendleton: I still have much to learn.
Pendleton: I... I am not ready.
Pendleton: That shouldn't count, I had magic at the time.
Pendleton: Speaking of, I ought to be returning this ring to Hiro.
Pendleton: No, I'm sure the honoroably thing to do would be to return it to his next of kin.
Pendleton: I will continue training, at least a little while longer.
Pendleton: Here is your ring back mister Hiro.
Pendleton: Don't give me too much credit.
Pendleton: It only works close to caverns like these doesn't it?
Pendleton: You seem to have done this before, but it didn't have any power when you got here.
Pendleton: You don't say.
Pendleton: Not it.
Pendleton: It's a hand-and-a-half sword. More commonly reffered to as—
Pendleton: Weapon. Subcategory: versatile.
Pendleton: I'm fine, it's just that my hair has gone a bit funny.
Pendleton: I believe there are a few more.
Pendleton: If you are up to it sire.[br]I'm sure there are others who can take it from here.
Pendleton: Sire?
Pendleton: ...
Pendleton: I... see.
Pendleton: I know things have not always been the best between us.
Pendleton: You try to hard to hold onto the past, and your grip... squishes it.
Pendleton: I... yes, squishes.
Pendleton: You make it seem smaller, disfigured, and shaped too much by your hands.
Pendleton: You have been a great knight. And I know you can still be great, but perhaps not weilding a sword.
Pendleton: Through thick and thin, sire, I have appreciated my time with you.
Pendleton: It's a good thing I did. Where would we be if I hadn't?
Pendleton: This could go on a while.
Pendleton: Things seem to be coming along back there.
Pendleton: I'll just leave them be.
Pendleton: Now this brings back memories.
Pendleton: They're not doing so bad really.[br]Most of them.
Pendleton: I don't know if I can handle this,[br]but I have to.
Pendleton: Strength and subtlety.
Pendleton: Evil will wilt before the purifying...[br]Okay, that was a bit much.
Pendleton: Nothing will stand in my way.
-=-=-=-=- LINES FOR Stranger: -=-=-=-=-
Stranger: What? I'm looting this place, same as you.
Stranger: Look, I'm trying not to call attention to myself.
Stranger: Hey, don't you have plates to polish or something?
Stranger: Windows sure are getting dirty without someone to clean them huh?
Stranger: I don't think I'm supposed to be here.
Stranger: Hey, I ain't bothering your animals am I? So don't bug me.
Stranger: I don't like the way you keep looking at me. Buzz off.
Stranger: Would you people just leave me alone!
Stranger: Why would I take some knight's stuff? Its all got some guy's crest on it. That just hurts resale value.
Stranger: I haven't seen your boss lately, because I hear him first. That parade armor is ridiculous.
Stranger: You know, guy your height could get into a lot of places...
Stranger: Yeah, get on out there and make evil fear to tread, lady.
Stranger: I bet there is a great treasure at the end... bummer.
Stranger: huff... huff... I made it?
Stranger: And this loot![br]I mean sure, it's not exactly precious metals.
Stranger: But there's gotta be an antiques dealer who will—
Stranger: I, uh, didn't see anybody.
Stranger: Guess the monsters ate them.
Stranger: Yeah, that's... great and all.[br]But I should probably get going.
Stranger: I'm sure I don't know what you're talking about.
Stranger: Hey, I ain't looking for trouble.
Stranger: So?
Stranger: I don't want your help.
Stranger: So I'll go hide.[br]Done it before.
Stranger: Fine, so what do I do now?
Stranger: ...
Stranger: Sure, why not?
Stranger: What of it?
Stranger: Wasn't trying to be.
Stranger: Yeah, fine. Enjoy it.
Stranger: Sure, why not?
Stranger: No.
Stranger: You're going to leave.[br]Now.
Stranger: Yeah, I guess I do.
Stranger: ...
Stranger: I'm used to that.
Stranger: You don't owe me anything.[br]Trust me.
Stranger: It's Steve.
Stranger: Yeah, um, thanks miss.
Stranger: Wait, what did you say?
Stranger: Maybe experience is the greatest treasure of all.[br]Nah, treasure is the greatest treasure.
Stranger: No loot? What a rip-off!
Stranger: Maybe if I can take some of these magic tricks out of here it'll be worth it.
Stranger: Powers? Why is there no gold?
-=-=-=-=- LINES FOR Jezerine: -=-=-=-=-
Jezerine: We may not have guild cards, but we have our spirit.
Jezerine: Is it nearly done?
Jezerine: How much longer will it take?
Jezerine: I will catch death
Jezerine: And it will meet its end.
Jezerine: What will become of any of us if I do not?
Jezerine: Still going to try to talk me out of it?
Jezerine: Isn't it exciting having all these warriors in town?
Jezerine: Need help seeing to the horses?
Jezerine: Do you think more adventurers are going to arrive?
Jezerine: I hear Ms. Smythe is starting a boot camp?
Jezerine: So, Sir Meyster isn’t... What I expected.
Jezerine: Where'd you learn to fight? You're pretty good for a squire.
Jezerine: Why do you make excuses for that old man?
Jezerine: But why don't you try a bigger windup? like this.
Jezerine: That has-been thinks she has soooo much to teach...
Jezerine: S-so what if the others failed? I've got more heart than all of them together!
Jezerine: (short character turnaround before hit animation) How was that?
Jezerine: I just see myself.
Jezerine: I've almost perfected my tri-slash maneuver.
Jezerine: No! All my training...
Jezerine: You handled all those monsters like it was nothing!
Jezerine: Hey you found him! We've been looking all over for—[br]Hey is that my sword?!
Jezerine: It's going to be a replica of the sword used by Malrak The Impudent.
Jezerine: You know, from the Cerulian Blight Saga.
Jezerine: Hey, did it get chipped?
Jezerine: Oh yeah. But it's before the eighth sunrise right?
Jezerine: And it's an awesome story!
Jezerine: Hey! Wait!
Jezerine: Did you see that?!
Jezerine: I did it! I totally just cleaned the floor with, like, a thousand monsters!
Jezerine: I am unstoppable!
Jezerine: The name's Jezerine, or maybe I need some cool deed-name after all this.
Jezerine: Something mysterious, but with allusions to my tragic backstory.
Jezerine: Really? Now? You're coming at me with that now?
Jezerine: I was just about to... Yeah okay, thanks bro.
Jezerine: But I've got to figure out where to go from here.
Jezerine: Yeah, I've got to keep this adventure rolling!
Jezerine: This will make for such a great origin story.
Jezerine: I was worried my home town would have to be destroyed.[br]I mean, we did come close.
Jezerine: Oh come on guys, I wasn't going to just dash down the road right away.
Jezerine: I still have to get some supplies, a new outfit, a squire...
;Jezerine: I'll catch up to you guys in a bit.
Jezerine: He's a good kid.
Jezerine: He just didn't have the tools I did.
Jezerine: He was a good kid.
;Jezerine: I knew some of those people. Some of the people I—
Jezerine: It is done.
Jezerine: All but one.
Jezerine: Old friends cannot stand the sight of me, not after the things I've done.
Jezerine: Not after what I've become.
Jezerine: I have left a wound which can never be healed.
Jezerine: What? No.
Jezerine: ...[br]Thanks.
Jezerine: Now I must roam the world alone.
Jezerine: Taking what I need at the edge of a blade.
Jezerine: My past, a grim stain on my soul that will never come clean.
Jezerine: I can never return.
Jezerine: I would only hurt them.[br]It's better this way.
Jezerine: It's got to be something right? Look at the carvings on the blade!
Jezerine: How about art?
Jezerine: Well, it's just...
Jezerine: I'm looking, and there no claws, no fangs...
Jezerine: I never get anything cool...
Jezerine: She is so cool!
Jezerine: I'm gonna—
Jezerine: She just doesn't understand modern combat.
Jezerine: Who was that?
Jezerine: And where did she get that outfit?
Jezerine: Ah, this shall be my magnum opus. It is "Strike of Zero malaise"!
Jezerine: I'll call this one "Frivolity of a Thousand Stones"!
Jezerine: Ah, and this move will be "Explosion Fire enlightenment"!
Jezerine: I have a magic attack!? I'm going to call it "Cold Wind of Yesterday".
Jezerine: Now what?
Jezerine: His ring, it's in here. if:!GetElements()
Jezerine: His ring, it's in here.  It's... cold. if:GetElements()
Jezerine: And all his gear. At least the things he sent back.
Jezerine: His ring, it's in here.
Jezerine: And all his gear. At least the things he sent back.
-=-=-=-=- LINES FOR Murtough: -=-=-=-=-
Murtough: Except me.
Murtough: Figures.
Murtough: Doesn't matter anyway...
Murtough: Wonder if this is how cows think, when one'a them disappears.
Murtough: Oh no... -hic- the sheep giving you trouble?
Murtough: Dun worry boss -hic- doin' what I always do.
Murtough: I may be a loser -hic- but at least I'll admit it.
Murtough: Is'more about what I didn't do.
Murtough: Y'think I could be a paladin? -hic-
Murtough: So, someday you'll be a big hero too huh? -hic- ain't what it's cracked up to be.
Murtough: Nobody knew what they were doing alright? It's not like I wanted thing t' end up like... with all of them...
Murtough: What else is there to say? Some came back from the war better, some didn't.
Murtough: Ya learned the fifty-bajillion spider toenail technique yet? -hic-
Murtough: Yeah, make sure to run the town real good like. Maybe then it'll look pretty when some kids in uniform burn it down.
Murtough: Gah... I need a drink...
Murtough: Ya were pretty good at it though.
Murtough: Always!
Murtough: Now doesn't that just warms and old soldiers heart.
Murtough: Had to make sure they all made it out.
Murtough: This time, everybody goes home.
Murtough: Thats very kind of you, but I think I'll pass.
Murtough: Don't pressure me. I ain't doin' this because it's easy
Murtough: Come on out of there and I'll tell you about it.
Murtough: Probably not, but then again, I'm not sure I have either.
Murtough: Let's talk about it.
Murtough: Suppose that wasn't so bad.
Murtough: Sure I did.
Murtough: Not like you sent in any soldiers before.
Murtough: Just a bunch of the old, the hopeful, and the helpless.
Murtough: They're aways the first to go anyway.
Murtough: I'm not a warrior, just a soldier.
Murtough: And you're just some kid who's barely gotten his hands bloody.
Murtough: Don't.
Murtough: Just be glad you didn't get in my way.
Murtough: Guess so.
Murtough: Know that cretin in the cell?[br]Get him out of town.
Murtough: I don't want to deal with him.
Murtough: So, we going to celebrate or what?
Murtough: Feels like its been ages since I had a good drink.
Murtough: Good man.
Murtough: If you need me, I'll be in my usual spot.
Murtough: Yeah, he said to start without him.
Murtough: Hey, thanks.
Murtough: You didn't have to save me.
Murtough: Look, its been a long time...
Murtough: Look, I'm sorry.[br]What do you even want?
Murtough: I just figgure we don't want to know.
Murtough: I... I'm so close! I can't let them down again!
Murtough: Stone, cold... still not sober.
Murtough: Should probably be careful.[br]I'm more flammable than most.
Murtough: Gah! That'll wake you up!
-=-=-=-=- LINES FOR Tedd: -=-=-=-=-
Tedd: I keep telling you you're thinking of a different job!
Tedd: Either way, I'm not leaving your side!
Tedd: After this!
Tedd: If my father is staying, I'm staying!
Tedd: We can overcome this together!
Tedd: Thank you for doing your part to keep everyone strong.
Tedd: Please give us some time. My father has been taking Todd's dea—[br]Todd's disappearance a little hard.
Tedd: Okay, I'm pretty sure you're making fun of me now.
Tedd: I can do this! I know it!
Tedd: It can be hard to measure up to those we admire.
Tedd: Okay, my timing is still a little off...
Tedd: I know the town is nearly empty, but I can't help but feel like I'm being watched.
Tedd: I don't know what to do for them. Looks like I need to work on my people skills.
Tedd: Dad, come on. You need to get out of this room.
Tedd: Things aren't that bad. Or I guess anyone that wanted to complain already left.
Tedd: I can do this. I know I can!
Tedd: I thought... I could handle it...
Tedd: Where's everyone else?
Tedd: You can't go just yet!
Tedd: We need to write down your story for the town's historical records!
Tedd: I keep telling you, it was an effort by the whole town. I can't take credit.
Tedd: I could do anything if I set my mind to it.
Tedd: A bit.
Tedd: I mean it though, you helped.[br]We couldn't have done it without you.
Tedd: Look, things have been rough for all of us.[br]Even before this all happened.
Tedd: Can we just go back to the way we were before?
Tedd: Fine, something new then?
Tedd: They try to make fun of you, I'll tell them to stop.
Tedd: And they'll have to listen to me, because I'm a hero now and all that.
Tedd: For you? I might.
Tedd: Why me?
Tedd: Why did I succeeded?
Tedd: Why not anyone else?
Tedd: I'm not a hero like Douglass.
Tedd: Douglass was a hero. Look where that got him.
Tedd: Everybody had their part to play.
Tedd: Some paid a higher price than others.
Tedd: Even people we don't even know.
Tedd: Some hunter who never should have been involved.
Tedd: I was just the one to cross the finish line.
Tedd: If anything, I lost the least.
Tedd: Just a brother...
Tedd: Sure. Let's go with that.
Tedd: I did what I had to.
Tedd: What so many before me have done.
Tedd: That those things, they used to be people.
Tedd: They all had jobs to do, people who loved them.
Tedd: Not all of them.
Tedd: It will be built like every civilized society.
Tedd: On the top of a mass grave.
Tedd: Our crimes paved over and forgotten.
Tedd: The juggernaut hardly needs a hand to steer it.
Tedd: Do you need me to sit for a picture?
Tedd: Sorry, I must have missed it.
Tedd: It is getting a bit late though.
Tedd: Can we pick up again tommorrow?
Tedd: Hey Darius! Good job on the spelling bee today.
Tedd: Why should we?
Tedd: Look at him.[br]I haven't seen him this happy in years.
Tedd: Helping makes him happy.
Tedd: What's wrong dad?
Tedd: 
Tedd: Dad...
Tedd: Dad...
Tedd: Dad...
Tedd: Be the mayor tomorrow.
Tedd: For now, just be a father.
Tedd: Maybe, just be a citizen for now.
Tedd: And we'll get through this together.
Tedd: I'm glad he's out of the office.
Tedd: Good work. He's out building people's spirits...
Tedd: If I could have run like this from the beginning...
Tedd: Got to get faster, who knows how far down this place goes.
Tedd: Even if I don't do this, at least I can pass the torch!
Tedd: Got it!... Wait, that wasn't it?
-=-=-=-=- LINES FOR Phillip: -=-=-=-=-
Phillip: No! stop! Please don't hurt me!
Phillip: Yes...?
Phillip: Quite a lot of loot coming in from that cave.
Phillip: There’s more than that in there. I bet someone out there would buy monster bones.
Phillip: Hey, if we don’t get something out of this you’re going to be destitute.
Phillip: That’s what I said.
Phillip: I, well... this is difficult to explain... You see—
Phillip: Oh thank Tellus.
Phillip: Well, somebody's got to eat this food before it goes bad!
Phillip: The stuff they've found down there is pretty good so far, but it looks like it gets better the deeper you go!
Phillip: Just imagine what must be waiting at the bottom!
Phillip: So, I suppose I have you to thank for this meat? It's quite good.
Phillip: Just playing the odds. When someone else fixes things I'll be first in line to get the treasure to market!
Phillip: Once I've made it big maybe I'll hire you to carry my stuff.
Phillip: I am really getting sick of those two.
Phillip: Yep... so glad to know these guys are protecting the town.
Phillip: Bout time the axe-man got off his rear.
Phillip: Hold on, hold on. I just need a little break.
Phillip: Crazy axe-man...
Phillip: I don't carry things.[br]I hire people to carry things.
Phillip: Finally a break!
Phillip: Hey, come on. Don't we have heavy things to pick up or something?
Phillip: Oh you smile now.[br]But tomorrow I'm going to teach you how to write a shipping manifest.
Phillip: You can't take it with you...
Phillip: Hey, everyone getting on okay out here?
Phillip: Oh there's plenty down there. More than enough to get the town going again if we use it smartly.
Phillip: But I wasn't coming out till I found something... priceless.
Phillip: So, we've got a...
Phillip: Okay what is this thing?
Phillip: Yeah yeah, does it go in the "art" or "weapon" pile.
Phillip: Anything's a weapon if you swing it hard enough.
Phillip: The real question is: Who will pay more for it?
Phillip: There may be a lot for one person.
Phillip: But we could make these things collector's items.
Phillip: Okay, next item up...
Phillip: Hey, could we get this one cleaned?
Phillip: What, you want to pay their comission?
Phillip: It's not about what we say it's worth.[br]It's what folks are willing to pay.
Phillip: You all can go. I'll finish up things here.
Phillip: How much can we get for this?
Phillip: Will it be enough?
Phillip: Enough to buy back everything that was lost?
Phillip: Everyone that was lost?
Phillip: It has to be.
Phillip: It's all we've got.
Phillip: Yeah, just load it in the back there.
Phillip: Well then tie it on top. I don't want to have to make a second trip.
Phillip: What? Did I give you a reason to doubt me?
Phillip: Yeah, well that's where hope gets you.
Phillip: You can't just sit around wishing for things will work out.
Phillip: You have to seize whatever you can without hesitation.
Phillip: I only planned to stay till there was loot. Which worked out better than I had imaigned.
Phillip: Thanks for the motivation. Probably wouldn't have made it through without your help.
Phillip: I saw...
Phillip: I saw something that might have been your son once.
Phillip: It was on my way back out. When I wasn't in such a rush.
Phillip: No.[br]He wasn't.
Phillip: Because I'd seen him on the way down too.
Phillip: Driver, get us out of here. I'm already past when I wanted to be gone.
Phillip: You don't have to of course...
Phillip: I have a few suggestions.
Phillip: I haven't felt this light on my feet since I was a lad!
Phillip: Just rough stone? Oh well.
Phillip: I'll get to the bottom of this in no time!
-=-=-=-=- LINES FOR Logos: -=-=-=-=-
Logos: Okay, now try to open your third eye.
Logos: Oh! You must be seeing another cave... Wait, are those pandas?
Logos: No, they are, it's just... Um, try again.
Logos: Yes that is... somewhere else. Hold on a second, let me have a look in there.
Logos: Okay, how about this time you close your 4th through 17th eye, and try looking again.
Logos: I think you'll do fine.
Logos: When the cave draws another in, I can allow us to view them here.
Logos: But without someone to follow, I can't see beyond the entrance.
Logos: The spell is difficult to maintain, but I will endure.[br]It is a seer's duty.
Logos: I almost saw something at the end that time...
Logos: The curse seems not to care who it takes.[br]Except Douglass...
Logos: If I disappear who will maintain the view?
Logos: It is not enough to simply believe in magic, one must have focus as well.
Logos: Perhaps you aren't thinking about this the right way...
Logos: Perhaps... you could ask her to help?
Logos: Sigh... I don't suppose you've had any spark of seership? Strange dreams maybe?
Logos: Perhaps... I can just keep this going as long as I can.
Logos: So, when you look into the glass, what do you see?
Logos: Well, it was worth a try.
Logos: This orb isn't even reflective...
Logos: In other times your lack of far-sight might be a relief.
Logos: Let’s... let’s just not worry about that too much.
Logos: I'm afraid we aren't getting anywhere.
Logos: This is... useful, but perhaps not in present circumstances.
Logos: Maybe... it's not as bad as it looked...
Logos: Are you alright?
Logos: No, the people you saw were victims of the curse. Overtaken by its fel magics.
Logos: We should probably just let him go.
Logos: He spared none that he found, beast or man.
Logos: I do not think sharing a meal with their friends and family would do him good.
Logos: A toast!
Logos: To Pendleton!
Logos: I was worried when we lost sight of you!
Logos: We saw his victory.[br]He must be on his way.
Logos: So... that's what it looks like from that angle...
Logos: I think I'll stick to scrying in the future.
Logos: Indeed I have, and many besides.
Logos: My dear, have you always had these spines?
Logos: That cave reeked of magic. Perhaps the prolonged exposure...
Logos: If it can I shall find it!
Logos: The rest of you, come with me.[br]Let's make sure this nightmare is truly over.
Logos: Are you alright with this Sara?
Logos: Indeed, and I am not the only one.[br]If you could please lend a hand.
Logos: Yes yes, that's... that's fine.
Logos: Now if you'll excuse me.[br]I need to get some rest.
Logos: Just... so very tired.
Logos: Indeed.[br]Now, out of my way ruffian.
Logos: There isn't any time.[br]I just came for my things.
Logos: I would not make such assumptions.
Logos: Not with so much at stake.
Logos: Irresponsible... still so much danger down below.
Logos: Now leave me to my work.
Logos: Tragic as it may be, we cannot always be perfect.
Logos: Four spells, if only I had time to study them.
Logos: I am not so accustomed to brutish force, but I will make due.
Logos: I studied the magic arts for years, but it looks like all I had to do was defeat the right monster.
Logos: Magic? But not like any I have seen...
Logos: We can only hope.[br]And hope has been in short supply.
Logos: Maybe a month.
Logos: We only lose one to the cave. Others we lose to fear.
Logos: Most have already fled, many may follow.
Logos: We only need to buy enough time for someone to answer our call for aid.
Logos: You have felt the ground shake.
Logos: Terrible things happen if places like these do not recieve the sacrafices they demand.
Logos: And what has happened to those other cities?
Logos: That ring he carries... It has a peculiar aura.[br]With it as a focus we may be able to watch his journey. Come with me.
-=-=-=-=- LINES FOR Paul: -=-=-=-=-
Paul: Hear Hear!
Paul: Hasn't been that long now. He was one of the first ones yaknow?
Paul: Sometimes I still think he'll be coming home any second. Wanting to show me a funny bug he found.
Paul: But now's my chance! I won't let anything stop me! When I see whatever fiend is causing this I'm gonna—
Paul: So what!? I don't care! In fact, I want the curse! Do you hear me?! Paul Dodger is here! Take your best shot!...
Paul: Or are you too much of a coward? Is that the problem ya cave! I may be a simple woodsman, but you'll see.
Paul: I'm pretty handy with an ax. I'll fell you just like a tree! Trees are pretty tough.
Paul: They don't move around much... but they can't be too different right?
Paul: Maybe the evil is a tree. You never know. That'd be pretty convenient. I mean, Douglass didn't bring an axe did he?
Paul: I think I saw someone bring a hatchet. They probably didn't know how to use it though.
Paul: Not to be rude of course. But there's a reason I'm the woodsman in this town.
Paul: I guess, if you need hatchets.
Paul: There's a pleasant thought.
Paul: You mean we’re going to be destitute.
Paul: No, I mean... won’t you be destitute too?
Paul: Excuse me?
Paul: I'll look forward to it.
Paul: Yep, just need to make one last cut.
Paul: I had hoped you'd leave with the others...
Paul: Fixa'whanow?
Paul: When my wife died I got by.[br]I still had something left after all.
Paul: But now?
Paul: What's another couple of days?
Paul: It's just... [br]How many days?
Paul: Dun worry, I'll be sober if it's my turn in the morning.
Paul: Wha'd you do to get that bozo so angry anyway?
Paul: I jus' want one of those monsters to wander out of that cave.
Paul: So's I can give it a few whacks.
Paul: Okay, you know what? It's time to get serious. Let's do this!
Paul: Come on moneybags! Show that dummy who's boss!
Paul: You think you're scary? I ain't no crow!
Paul: Come on! It's endurance training time! Pick up your pack!
Paul: There must be a way to see my son again...
Paul: I... I just can't today okay?
Paul: You're not half bad at this.
Paul: Why?!
Paul: What does it even mean?!
Paul: ...
Paul: Is that you boy?
Paul: We do boy, we do.
Paul: He's out!
Paul: It's been too long.
Paul: Just a day and a half. 
Paul: What are you going to do?
Paul: Thank you kindly.
Paul: Somebody's got to play referee.
Paul: It's odd though.
Paul: You'd think the supply chest would be overflowing by now.
Paul: Son!
Paul: So you're just leaving?
Paul: Sure, sure.
Paul: Just one thing. Did you see him?[br]My son. Was he in there? 
Paul: Was he... was he...
Paul: ...
Paul: Did I hear right?[br]He came back?
Paul: And the others? How many...
Paul: There you are!
Paul: So tell me, did my boy behave himself in school today?
Paul: But a good little monster right?
Paul: Attaboy!
Paul: Yes, but just until you finish your classes with Tasha.
Paul: Oh? how'd you do kiddo?
Paul: Good job![br]Come on, let's go home.
Paul: I don't know Son.[br]Miss Fluer said that bones usually... don't shrink.
Paul: But you never know. Mr Logos is finding neat stuff in that cave all the time.
Paul: What? Who told you that?
Paul: Look Son, we may joke, but you're not a monster.
Paul: Being human isn't about how many fingers you have, it's about what's in your heart.
Paul: And as long as you're alive, that's all that matters.
Paul: Hey, knock yourself out kid.
Paul: I'm afraid not.
Paul: I can't ever look at this place the same again.
Paul: Just taking a souvenir, that's all.
Paul: No!
Paul: That's fine. I'll be fine.
Paul: Just a little further, we're not quite out of sight yet.
Paul: When people see you it will...
Paul: It will bring back bad memories.
Paul: Sure, you were saying that before you grew fangs.
Paul: We're going to try veggies a bit longer.
Paul: We'll talk about it.
Paul: Have you been cooking something like this every day?
Paul: But you have to come to the party.
Paul: Yeah, um, we'll save you a plate.
Paul: Didn't know you cared.
Paul: I think he's got a handle on it.
Paul: Not getting anything done here...
Paul: What's a little longer to wait?
Paul: Nothing is going to stand in my way!
Paul: You hear me monsters?![br]I'll make your power my own!
Paul: If this evil burns... My fire shall reduce it to ash.
Paul: I'll be willing to take on worse than this to cleanse this evil!
-=-=-=-=- LINES FOR Jinn: -=-=-=-=-
Jinn: Let me draw a chart of what I'm trying to do...
Jinn: So cave, how many people have you taken?
Jinn: I used to teach a school here you know?[br]Before you scared everyone off.
Jinn: Now it's time to teach you a lesson.
Jinn: We had to send the children away. At least now I don't need to hide my drinking.
Jinn: Why am I still here?
Jinn: Shoot, why am I here?
Jinn: Where did you find these runes?
Jinn: I'm wondering why none of them make sense.
Jinn: How do you think the cave chooses? It doesn't seem to take the closest people...
Jinn: Don't worry about me. I'm alright.
Jinn: So, we're already infected? Why isn't anything happening to us?
Jinn: No... I'm good thanks.
Jinn: Let me draw a chart of what I'm trying to do...
Jinn: I took inventory so we can sort tabs out later.
Jinn: You shur you can do ziss yourself?
Jinn: It's... not easy to lose a student.
Jinn: The worst part is that there isn't much to do around here anymore.
Jinn: Todd was a good kid. But I think he felt like he couldn't be as good as you...
Jinn: So, people didn't get sick until they left town right?
Jinn: I'd like to say I wanted to make sure there was something for them to come back to.
Jinn: Really, I think it's just a way out I wouldn't have to be ashamed of.
Jinn: ...
Jinn: I am sorry about your son. He was a good kid.
Jinn: I mean, he is a good kid.
Jinn: I don't know if I'm ready for the end, but I know they aren't. I can't let them down.
Jinn: ...
Jinn: No.
Jinn: I'm... not okay with this.
Jinn: Where?
Jinn: What's he doing in there?
Jinn: I'll come too.
Jinn: He was a little monster, as always.
Jinn: Though it may be time to trim his claws again.
Jinn: Oh, the town had a party, the evacuees started coming back, things kinda just went back to normal.
Jinn: Yeah, a lot of sages are pretty excited about it. I'm just a schoolteacher.
Jinn: And the resident advisor on Pre-Consalidrium artifacts.
Jinn: It's kind of an honorary position. They just want me to stay in town in case they come up with any questions.
Jinn: So far, just a lot of questions about things I wasn't paying attention to while running for my life.
Jinn: Your readers "demand to know"?
Jinn: I feel, better.
Jinn: Hardly.
Jinn: It's more like a research stipend is just what I needed.
Jinn: For years I was only making enough to buy food and keep a roof over my head.
Jinn: I never hated the things I did.[br]I just didn't like having to do them.
Jinn: Yes, but I don't have to.
Jinn: I can do them because I want to.[br]Not because my survival depends on it.
Jinn: I could stop now, and not... die.
Jinn: Maybe you think so now, but give it a decade or two.
Jinn: I live my life without time breathing down my neck.
Jinn: That's good enough for me.
Jinn: I don't know about this one. The writer wins?[br]Seems a little self-indulgent.
Jinn: Starting to feel like you're in a rut?
Jinn: Doesn't hurt that everyone else with firsthand experience is a meathead adventurer.
Jinn: The schoolchildren really like the one about the squire.
Jinn: I... like the one about the pillager.
Jinn: I've read all of them, but that character was a little too... relateable. 
Jinn: Well, I've read almost all of them.
Jinn: I haven't been able to get my hands on the one about the cultist.
Jinn: What's the problem?
Jinn: I don't understand, can't you just tell people what happened?
Jinn: Yeah, she just one of our best swords and ran off with it.
Jinn: Okay, but you're not writing a story. You're telling true events. Why not just tell it like it is?
Jinn: Are you saying this would make a better stage play?
Jinn: Let's put the bad times behind us and move forward.
Jinn: Nice while it lasted.
Jinn: It is working, we can do this!
Jinn: With this, they will never find me.
Jinn: I must keep moving.
Jinn: Why does it just keep getting colder?
-=-=-=-=- LINES FOR Meyster: -=-=-=-=-
Meyster: Fear not fair maiden! He was not the only one who knew how to swing a blade!
Meyster: Well then... 
Meyster: You waste your time.[br]Only the cursed may enter.
Meyster: Go on squire, tell him he is wasting his time!
Meyster: Not if we have anything to say about it!
Meyster: Squire! Apprehend that man!
Meyster: Take a look squire. The den of evil.
Meyster: I would purge it right now, if only there were not so much evil in the town itself.
Meyster: Do not worry frail squire. Soon a hero will save this town.
Meyster: A "spin move" is just a fancy way of turning your back on a foe.
Meyster: Has anyone seen my sword?
Meyster: Oh, no trouble, I'm sure it'll turn up.
Meyster: I miss Pendleton.
Meyster: I even miss how he would constantly bother me with mundane things.
Meyster: Yeah, he'd always badger me about that.
Meyster: But... my sword!
Meyster: I would charge into that cave right now, but someone needs to keep an eye on that cultist!
Meyster: A young lad like Todd ought to be reading books.
Meyster: Well, I suppose he is.
Meyster: But he should be reading different books!
Meyster: Don't worry ma'am. I'll be keeping watch over the entrance.
Meyster: Pah! I regret nothing!
Meyster: Someone needs to keep an eye on this man...
Meyster: She is brave, confronting a ruffian like that.
Meyster: A scarecrow is hardly a worthy foe, but sloth has taken down many greater than I!
Meyster: You don't fight to put on a show. It's the simple things that win.
Meyster: I dare say our new friend needs to learn to pace himself.
Meyster: I'd charge right in after him.
Meyster: I would...
Meyster: Good to see you back on the field.[br]Show me what you can do.
Meyster: I'm glad they're learning well. I'd demonstrate the technique myself, but if I don't take care of my spine who will?
Meyster: Hrmph. Foolish peddler. Should know better than to annoy those who mourn.
Meyster: Put your back into it!
Meyster: He fell in service. There is no better way. Let us honor him.
Meyster: My spirit is as strong as ever.
Meyster: Would that I could triumph with that alone.
Meyster: A true hero leaves a legacy.[br]And what have I?
Meyster: Why? You won!
Meyster: Now I can keep an eye on you...
Meyster: Well, none who dared venture so far have managed to—
Meyster: Hear hear!
Meyster: Thought I might find you here.[br]What's wrong?
Meyster: Why is that my boy?
Meyster: Like I have?
Meyster: When I saw you battling in that cave—[br]I wanted to go in after you.
Meyster: But, watching you fell foe after foe, I finally admitted that I am not the warrior I once was.
Meyster: My mistake was to try to hold on to glory and never let it go.
Meyster: As for you my boy, well, to push it away would be just as foolish.
Meyster: Why, become a proper knight!
Meyster: Of course not. You will need help.
Meyster: I may be an old fool, but I still know how to drive a wagon and tell a good tale.
Meyster: If there is one flaw I dare mention, it's that you do not know how to spin a proper story!
Meyster: Pendleton! You're...
Meyster: Yes! The cavern has been cleared of evil and a new dawn—
Meyster: Dear boy, what is the matter?
Meyster: What happened to Douglass was... unfortunate... but someone ought to carry his legacy.
Meyster: And I cannot think of a better—
Meyster: Pendleton...
Meyster: Pendleton! You have returned!
Meyster: Ah, sorry.
Meyster: Just, you know, from the side you look—Ah! There you are!
Meyster: You did it! You completed your first nobel quest!
Meyster: It is a bittersweet occasion.
Meyster: I revel in your trumph.
Meyster: But I did not think I would be losing my squire so soon.
Meyster: You are not a student anymore.
Meyster: Ah but now you will learn by doing!
Meyster: There is no better school than the open road.
Meyster: Pardon? I saw you vanquish evil myself!
Meyster: I am sure Hiro would be honored if you carried on his legacy.
Meyster: Then, what will you do?
Meyster: Very well, if that is what you want.
Meyster: Such nobility! Many have been tempted by power such as that.
Meyster: Or so the tales have told.
Meyster: Young man, the people are waiting!
Meyster: Now where did he go?
Meyster: Aye, just give me a task![br]Finally a place we can all pitch in!
Meyster: Ah, sunlight! It has been too long.
Meyster: Is that everyone?
Meyster: Then we return! One does not celibrate until the deed is done.
Meyster: I appreciate the concern.[br]One must know their own limits.
Meyster: But I wish to see my last adventure through to the end.
Meyster: Aye lad, I think it may be time for me to retire.
Meyster: You might say that I've finally slain a dragon.
Meyster: I know that I have not always been the best knight, or mentor.
Meyster: One can only hope that you learned the right lessons.
Meyster: Squishes?
Meyster: Aye, that is probably true.
Meyster: And I with you. Thank you for humoring this old man.
Meyster: It is done! I have conquered the monsters!
Meyster: That's just it my boy, there were none.
Meyster: Worse, in a cruel mockery, some of the monsters wore the bodies of their victims.
Meyster: Some even sounded like them.
Meyster: Tried to fool me. Said they weren't monsters.
Meyster: No doubt they would have infiltrated our good society.[br]If I hadn't put an end to them.
Meyster: We must be vigilent. Some of their corruption may have already spread.
Meyster: Now? When the victory is so close?
Meyster: If even one escapes it would be a tradgedy!
Meyster: Why would you try to pull me from the proper path?
Meyster: Unless...[br]Oh, my poor boy.
Meyster: Mayor Wilson...
Meyster: It breaks my heart that I could not save you.[br]But you will be avenged.
Meyster: You know young man. With your spirit and skill you could be a fine knight if you chose to be.
Meyster: So, was Pendleton...?
Meyster: It is not victory that makes a hero.
Meyster: Indeed, Let us look to the future.
Meyster: Lift your head. It is a grand day!
Meyster: You have vanquished evil!
Meyster: My blade is set to leap from my hand.[br]And into my foe's heart!
Meyster: As if my bones didn't creek enough already.
Meyster: Feels like I'm going to cook in my armor.
Meyster: A mighty foe! But am I too late?
-=-=-=-=- LINES FOR Reya: -=-=-=-=-
Reya: You know how this goes, give me your valuables before I—
Reya: Hey! What do you think you're doing?
Reya: Look here you lowlife. Don't you dare compare what you do to what I do! I'm Pillaging! You see this sword?
Reya: Quiet! I'm not talking to you!
Reya: That's my point! We may be ruining these people's lives, but if I'm going to stab someone in the back at least I'm going to do it to their face!
Reya: Get out of here ya looter! Maybe you can sneak by when the monster's backs are turned!
Reya: I said, give me that blade.
Reya: I've seen ya'll take some real shiny loot out of that cave, and I want it.
Reya: Fine, I was getting tired of idle threats.
Reya: I, uh.
Reya: Well, now those losers have no hope.
Reya: Well well well. Look at the conquering hero.
Reya: Maybe you should be.[br]You didn't let anything stand in your way after all.
Reya: You've got potential. Maybe we can help each other out.
Reya: You sure? It won't be long before these folks start thinking.
Reya: They'll be thinking about all the other things you killed down there besides the big slimeball.
Reya: Nah, I know your type, you've always hid in plain sight. But now?[br]You're going to be famous.
Reya: Come with me.
Reya: We'll split the gear, you can hold onto that ring, and I'll teach you all you need to know.
Reya: If it doesn't work out, we go our seperate ways.
Reya: If it does, maybe I'll take that ring from you after all.
Reya: Didn't go looking for a lot of civilians either did ya?
Reya: You're not the hero they think you are.
Reya: Fine by me.[br]Now how about handing over that gear? And the ring of course.
Reya: It's hodgepodge, but I think I could make an ensamble of it.
Reya: I'd say 'see you around,'[br]but I don't think I'll be coming back to a slum like this.
Reya: Well, you got it.
Reya: Now why don't you had over that gear? And the ring of course.
Reya: It's hodgepodge, but I think I could make an ensamble of it.
Reya: Scuse me?
Reya: What? You think I'm just going to walk away from a payday like this?
Reya: ...
Reya: Fine. Better watch your back, looter.
Reya: Cute kid.
Reya: Reminds me of me at her age.
;Reya: I hear you really slughtered those horrors.
Reya: You even outdid that little knight-in-training.
Reya: Even that little knight couldn't stand against you!
;Reya: I'm a bit disappointed I didn't get a crack at them myself.
;Reya: Yeah kid, this isn't really a friendly business.
;Reya: But don't worry. First one's always the hardest.
;Reya: You'll see how it is when you get out there.
Reya: Glad that's finally over.
Reya: Don't look so disappointed.
Reya: Yeah, you're welcome.
Reya: Thanks to me things will start getting back to normal around here.
Reya: Which means it's time for me to leave.
Reya: ...
Reya: You know what? I think I will stick around.[br]Just to watch this guy flinch.
Reya: Yeah, probably could, but I prefer a proactive approach.
Reya: I like you, you're funny.
Reya: You should consider becoming a performer or something.
Reya: Yaknow, because it's going to be really hard to keep your current job without this ring.
Reya: Ugh, finally.
Reya: Probably, somebody should go check on that.
Reya: I don't know, go look.
Reya: I left most of it down there.
Reya: I just wanted this.
Reya: Hey! Stay back![br]This sword's mine.
Reya: Unless you want to be the first living blood it tastes.
Reya: Name's Reya.
Reya: No.
Reya: Alright, fine.[br]Let's celibrate.
Reya: It'll be a nice change of pace.
Reya: Well now, that wasn't so tough.
Reya: Dead.
Reya: They got made into monsters.
Reya: I could burn this whole town to the ground without losing any sleep.
Reya: I'd have nothing to gain from it.[br]But keep telling me what to do and I might change my mind.
Reya: Nah, I think it would be nice if there were some folks left who could tell the story of how it all began.
Reya: My legend.
Reya: I'm done getting paid with whatever I find in the pockets of peasants and peddlers.
Reya: From now on I go after kings, and get paid to do it.
Reya: Enjoy farming, or whatever it is you do.
Reya: Hey, I gave you your lives. Be thankful.
Reya: I said, be thankful!
Reya: Good girl.
Reya: You won't see me again, but this won't be the last time my deeds change your life.
Reya: Hey, you handled things pretty well down there. Ever thought about—
Reya: I was good before, but now I'm superhuman!
Reya: How many of these beasts are there?
Reya: Once I get out of here nothing is going to stand in my way!
Reya: Hah! And they were scared of this cave.
-=-=-=-=- LINES FOR Nelson: -=-=-=-=-
Nelson: Come inside, you'll catch your death of cold.
Nelson: It is not becoming of a young lady to play with swords.
Nelson: No.
Nelson: Here, take this. I hear it's cold in there.
Nelson: Yes.[br]And unlike our former bartender, I am much more apt to 'cut one off'.
Nelson: Can't say that I have.
Nelson: Such as, always telling you where you sword was?
Nelson: Well, how kind of you to put up with him.
Nelson: I'm sure they've found something else you can use.
Nelson: Are you sure there is nothing else I can do sir?
Nelson: Very well. No doubt there are a few places in town that could use a little—
Nelson: Excuse me sir?
Nelson: An employer cannot command one to stop working...[br]On their own time.
Nelson: ...
Nelson: If you will excuse me sir.
Nelson: It seems I do have one last job to do.
Nelson: The dishes aren't quite ready yet. We have only just served dinner.
Nelson: Cooking for this many people... it almost reminds me of home.
Nelson: It's good to have something to do. Keeps the mind occupied.
Nelson: My sister says I grew up too fast. I say she is too childish. You'd hardly guess we were twins.
Nelson: With perserverance, you too will succeed in time.
Nelson: I will admit, I thought my sister would have given up by now.
Nelson: Please don't tell her I said that.
Nelson: I feel as if some degree of normality must be maintained.
Nelson: Well, it may be a change of venue, but the mayor hasn't needed me much lately.
Nelson: None of us are at our best.[br]Let's not dwell on this.
Nelson: I begin to miss the dignity of my regular job.
Nelson: I wonder if this place has ever been cleaned.
Nelson: Do not worry. I am keeping records. If... when the lady of the establishment returns she will have a few tabs to settle.
Nelson: I should have cut him off sooner...
Nelson: It's... just not the same now.
Nelson: It seems there is much to catch up on.
Nelson: I don't suppose you could convince the man of the house to return?
Nelson: It's good to see you. This afternoon I'll whip up something that will put that bar food to shame.
Nelson: I thought I would sort things out here since it is no longer being used.
Nelson: Well, this place was certainly left a mess.
Nelson: Whoever she was, she certainly could fight.
Nelson: She... probably would have liked her.
Nelson: Perhaps I can just take a rest...
Nelson: Jessica! You made it!
Nelson: I just, I'm so happy to see you made it!
Nelson: Hello? Did someone come by to visit?
Nelson: Oh, I thought I heard you talking to someone.
Nelson: The memorial service will be starting soon. 
Nelson: We'll be happy to see you there, but it's up to you.
Nelson: You've been through a lot. We're here for you when you're ready.
Nelson: Yes, I suppose there is a cause for celibration.
Nelson: I shall make preparations.
Nelson: Something wrong Jezerine?
Nelson: The rest of the village will not be returning today.[br]Perhaps you could stay for a short celibration?
Nelson: That does seem prudent.
Nelson: What may we call you, madame?
Nelson: Don't even think about it, young lady.
Nelson: Ah! Good to see you sir.
Nelson: You have excellent timing. I have almost completely thawed this section.
Nelson: --fire attack noises--
Nelson: These powers may not work outside of the cave, but they still have their uses within.
Nelson: It is thrilling work, though I suppose I have been neglecting my duties.
Nelson: When I first charged through these runes I saw horror[br]And yet...
Nelson: There were places where the old architecture shone though.
Nelson: Intact despite the decay and corruption.
Nelson: This must have been a beautiful place once.
Nelson: I do not know. It is lovely though, is it not?
Nelson: It makes one wonder, was this art? Or did it once serve a function?
Nelson: Good to see you sir. Is there something you need?
Nelson: They will be ready in just a moment.
Nelson: Just the ravages of time.
Nelson: It has been long enough.[br]They deserve our respect.
Nelson: The hero who brought that magic ring with him.
Nelson: We didn't even get to ask where he was from.[br]Or who might be waiting for him to return.
Nelson: That man... do you realize that none of us even know his name?
Nelson: Was he selling his wares to provide for his family?
Nelson: A family that will never see his return?
Nelson: The young squire may not have been from here.
Nelson: But I feel it fitting that he have a place here now.
Nelson: Poor Sara. We hardly knew her.
Nelson: I think she was afraid we wouldn't like her.
Nelson: It seems fitting that the last guard to stay to defend us would give his life for us.
Nelson: I don't think McDermit would have wanted to go any other way.
Nelson: I don't think Norma wanted any of this.
Nelson: Perhaps she was just too stubborn to leave.
Nelson: I don't know if we could have made it through without Mara.
Nelson: She always did what she could to keep the town's spirits up.
Nelson: I think that some may judge Todd too harshly.
Nelson: Perhaps he wanted to tread his own path.
Nelson: I don't know what we'll do without Melvardius.
Nelson: Perhaps he now truly feels the peace he always tried to teach us.
Nelson: I never got to know our blacksmith.
Nelson: I wish I had. His last piece is a work of art, even unfinished.
Nelson: As often as I can.
Nelson: Ah! Good to see you sir.
Nelson: Thank you for that, sir.
Nelson: I just... When they come back, I want it to look the way that they left it.
Nelson: Every dead thing in there got back up again!
Nelson: Why shouldn't they!?
Nelson: And when... and when they return, their things will be ready.
Nelson: Just be patient sir. Everything is going to be fine.
Nelson: I will make sure of it.
Nelson: Filth?
Nelson: I may not defeat you cavern, but I can serve those who follow me.
Nelson: I will do my work behind the scenes. They will not see me coming.
Nelson: We can do this. We will make it through.
Nelson: I feel an ill wind... We are moving too slowly.
-=-=-=-=- LINES FOR JohnDoe: -=-=-=-=-
JohnDoe: I can't hear you very well. [br] Take a step closer.
JohnDoe: I better get parole for this!
JohnDoe: Buzz off lady.
JohnDoe: I strangled an obnoxious journalist.
JohnDoe: At least the food ain't so bad.
JohnDoe: Why am I still here with the curse going on?
JohnDoe: Two words.[br]Recidivism.
JohnDoe: Get outta here, little soldier.
JohnDoe: You know, once you get used to it, the cot isn't so bad.
JohnDoe: Commission a painting. It'll last longer.
JohnDoe: That bum still pickling himself? Tell him I said 'hi'.
JohnDoe: Hey, stop breaking the laws of time and space.
JohnDoe: Hey,
JohnDoe: Hey, hey!
JohnDoe: Hey you!
JohnDoe: You look ridiculous.
JohnDoe: Hey, don't you want to hear about my tragic past?
JohnDoe: So kid, looking to be a leader? Best make sure you do a good job.
JohnDoe: Or someone like me will come looking for you.
JohnDoe: Hey, I'm ready to come out now.[br]Not looking ta throttle anyone else.
JohnDoe: Great, I'm out just in time for things to dry up.
JohnDoe: Prolly for the best. Don't want to end up like sarge.
JohnDoe: So, what's your deal? I know a good scowl when I see one.
JohnDoe: Geez, old man needs to learn to let go.
JohnDoe: I mean, I'm stuck in it now right? Everybody else that left spread some kind of plague.
JohnDoe: At least there are plenty of empty houses to stay in.
JohnDoe: What, you guys didn't know she was around?
JohnDoe: Yeah, see a lot when you stare out a window all day.
JohnDoe: Where I'm from, with a wall this puny we'd have monster attacks every day.
JohnDoe: They always said revenge would be the end of me.
JohnDoe: Didn't expect it to be this dramatic.
JohnDoe: I strangled an obnoxious journalist.
JohnDoe: Great, now I'm stuck here.
JohnDoe: What's everybody so happy about anyway?
JohnDoe: This doesn't mean anything.
JohnDoe: You think I've forgiven you or something?
JohnDoe: Old fool probably got lost.
JohnDoe: Yeah yeah, I'm gonna be on my way soon eough.
JohnDoe: But I'm gonna make sure I give him a piece of my mind first.
JohnDoe: You kidding? I hear he can actually fight back now.
JohnDoe: That means this pummeling's gonna actaully mean something.
JohnDoe: Yeah, whatever.
JohnDoe: So what are you even waiting for?
JohnDoe: Bet it ain't my scintillating conversation.
JohnDoe: Just don't get in my way.
JohnDoe: He better not have let someone else kill him.
JohnDoe: Hey! he made it!
JohnDoe: Hey, good day to you too.
JohnDoe: What's up with the pommel?
JohnDoe: Ha HA! That wasn't so bad.
JohnDoe: Alright ya louts, get on outa there.
JohnDoe: I couldn't very well leave you all stuck in a stone structure against your will.
JohnDoe: Would be inhumane.
JohnDoe: Being all carcerated in a dank hole in the ground for an indefinite—
JohnDoe: Eh, fine. Nice to have somebody believe in me for once.
JohnDoe: Huh, too bad I didn't choose to then.
JohnDoe: Buzz off lady.
JohnDoe: Yeah. Why not keep a good thing going?
JohnDoe: Ugh. Fine.
JohnDoe: It's Steve.
JohnDoe: Place is full of monsters. You think they have a bunch of nice jail cells to put everyone in?
JohnDoe: I got shanghaied into this. Just be glad I killed the monsters for you.
JohnDoe: I wasn't here to stick out my neck for nobody.
JohnDoe: What was the reward you were offering all the bold paragons from far off lands anyway?
JohnDoe: Yeah, whatever.
JohnDoe: Tell you what. I'll take what I can carry out of this loot.[br]You lot can have fun with the rest.
JohnDoe: Don't mention it.[br]To anyone.
JohnDoe: What? Is that not everybody?
JohnDoe: Guess I haven't been formally introduced to most of ya.
JohnDoe: What I could?[br]I did what I had to.
JohnDoe: Get over it kid.
JohnDoe: Oh great, here I was hoping you'd get lost on the way out.
JohnDoe: I'm getting real tired of people telling me what I do and don't have to do.
JohnDoe: Yeah, and it ain't over yet.
JohnDoe: Bin it, pointy hat.
JohnDoe: When I figure it out.[br]You'll be the first to know.
JohnDoe: No thanks.
JohnDoe: Get out of my way!
JohnDoe: It's good enough for me. Monsters are dead.
JohnDoe: Just wait till I show that drunkard my new tricks.
JohnDoe: I'm not usually one to hide from my problems, but let's give this a try.
JohnDoe: I could have gotten out of my cell in no time with this.
JohnDoe: This cold is nothing after sleeping on stone!
-=-=-=-=- LINES FOR Fluer: -=-=-=-=-
Fluer: Your appendix looks like it'll have to come out in a few years. But hey, your kidneys are looking pretty good!
Fluer: You know, I really have to admire your handiwork on this. It's so richly detailed.
Fluer: You must have spent hours studying how those beasties look.
Fluer: Well... it um, looks like you're just about done.
Fluer: I'm not sure yet, I just know that this is NOT what healthy blood tastes like.
Fluer: Oh, would you like to try some?
Fluer: What am I going to do? What if I have to go in next?!
Fluer: I don't think I could hurt something even if it is a monster!
Fluer: No I don't.
Fluer: It would have kept it from being stuffed up.
Fluer: You leave Josephine out of this.
Fluer: Hey, if you had let me infect you with cholera it would have wiped out that flue!
Fluer: What am I going to do!?
Fluer: I'm trying to prep for the injuries Douglass will have when he comes back. Did you see what that last gooey thing did to him? I kinda closed my eyes...
Fluer: Don't get me wrong, as a doctor I have to deal with all kinds of, um... goo, but those slimes give me the willies.
Fluer: Maybe I can still help. Every living thing has to have some weakness after all.
Fluer: But does a slime even have a hamstring?
Fluer: This all makes me wish I'd had more practice.[br]People are just too healthy around here.
Fluer: I can't take much credit. I barely had a chance to diagnose him before he recovered.
Fluer: Using a no-clip hack, seriously?
Fluer: Most of those creatures seem to be biologically impossible... there must be some other key to their weaknesses.
Fluer: Maybe if we could disrupt the magic that is keeping them alive.
Fluer: Or overload it!
Fluer: I... I can't do anything if nobody comes back.
Fluer: Usually monsters don't last so long in the wild. They're too aggressive...[br]You would think being cooped up in a cave would accelerate that.
Fluer: Let's see, the heart would be riiiight here.
Fluer: The thing that bothers me is that the slimy things don't seem to have more than one skeleton worth of bones in them...
Fluer: Come to think of it... When was the last time any of us got sick?
Fluer: If you see any bread laying around please leave it where it is.
Fluer: It's for science.
Fluer: Hrrrmmm...
Fluer: The bread. It's not as moldy over here.
Fluer: Which one is killing us?[br]The plague or the cure?
Fluer: As everyone goes through the cave they seem to get sicker, and a then don't... and then do.
Fluer: What if the cave is preventing disease?[br]But how could it keep that up all this time?
Fluer: It's just safer here...[br] and healthier...
Fluer: If there's a sickness, you keep people out.[br]It's the responsible thing to do...
Fluer: I just need more data...
Fluer: What is that smell...? Wait! It's—
Fluer: You made it!
Fluer: Wait!
Fluer: This isn't something only you can do. I want to help.
Fluer: You don't sound so good. Let me take a look at you.
Fluer: So you're just going to leave us with nothing?
Fluer: ...
Fluer: Thank you.
Fluer: Are you okay? Where are the rest?
Fluer: Sure sure, in a bit.[br]I need to look at these samples I collected.
Fluer: Some of the samples are larger than others.
Fluer: This goo that was all over down there, do you know what it is?
Fluer: Yes! I think so.
Fluer: Illness has been supressed in this town, and I think that place has something to do with it!
Fluer: But the illness sat in there, soaking up magic, until it couldn't be contained.
Fluer: Or something...[br]I have a lot of work ahead of me.
Fluer: I have some ideas, but I'll need time to work on them.
Fluer: Only if I can work on my samples...[br]See how fast this is decomposing?
Fluer: I'm back.
Fluer: I cleansed the infection.
Fluer: I cleansed.[br]The infection.
Fluer: You see this arm? The protrusions on the joints?
Fluer: This is what happens to those who were exposed.
Fluer: This sample came from patient 17.
Fluer: I need you to keep your distance.
Fluer: It will take time to study the potential for secondary infection.
Fluer: I can't come out. This entire cavern needs to be under quarentine until I understand what's going on here.
Fluer: I will need my tools. Just leave them at the entrance and I will retrieve them.
Fluer: No.[br]They were dead before I came in.
Fluer: Now, bring my scalpels and Josephine. I have several necrosections to perform.
Fluer: I can't believe you defeated the curse!
Fluer: No offense, I mean...
Fluer: Usually?
Fluer: I don't understand. We all saw you go in.
Fluer: Experiencing this one?
Fluer: Let me take a look at you, I think you might have hit your head. I'll go get my treppaning kit.
Fluer: They're fine.
Fluer: Why are you so nervous?
Fluer: I was hoping we could order some new medicines to help counteract the curse's effects.
Fluer: It would be useful to order a few herbs from...
Fluer: There you are.
Fluer: Sara has been looking for you.
Fluer: Hey, you just disappeared after the party.
Fluer: Not really.
Fluer: I mean, I will, but I'm not looking forward to it.
Fluer: Are you coming back this time?
Fluer: In your very qualified opinion, is the middle of the night the best time to start a trip?
Fluer: What happened to Sara wasn't your fault.
Fluer: What happened to the others wasn't your fault.
Fluer: We didn't think any of them were—
Fluer: Okay, let's get it loaded up.
Fluer: I'll let them know once you've gone.
Fluer: There! My humors are finally in balance again!
Fluer: Definitely feeling more melancholic, but I have to go on!
Fluer: Whew, starting to feel choleric.
Fluer: Oooh, I can feel my humors going out of balance.
Fluer: What are we going to do now?
Fluer: What are we going to do now?
-=-=-=-=- LINES FOR Tasha: -=-=-=-=-
Tasha: Don't worry Pete.[br]I wasn't mad at you.
Tasha: Not for you at least.
Tasha: Again!
Tasha: Again!
Tasha: Ugh, take five.
Tasha: On second thought, get up!
Tasha: We all have noble and great reasons for standing against evil.
Tasha: Yes, except him.
Tasha: No.
Tasha: You'll have to go through me.
Tasha: Take the blade.
Tasha: You take it, or you'll have to go through me.
Tasha: Be my guest.
Tasha: Your form needs work. You stumble on the follow-through.
Tasha: Oh, okay then.
Tasha: When you see the flying machine made of knives make sure to let it know that your reflexes aren't what they used to be.
Tasha: I'm sure it'll slow down.
Tasha: And when the monster tries to scald you with boiling lava, let it know that smoke is bad for your lungs.
Tasha: I'm sure it will tone that down for you.
Tasha: Oh, when the monster made of stone comes at you, make sure to let it know that your joints ache.
Tasha: I'm sure it'll take that into account and make sure to crack easier for you.
Tasha: DO YOU?!
Tasha: How many people have gone in there?! How many have YOU seen come out?!
Tasha: I taught them everything I know! Everything![br]What was the point of any of it?!
Tasha: Of anything I ever did?...
Tasha: I'll do more than try.
Tasha: Douglass had spirit alright, but he held his arm a bit stiff when he swung. I should've called him out on that...
Tasha: That poor girl. T'was no place for a maid.
Tasha: Why you...[br]You know what!? I'm not dried up yet.
Tasha: There are still things I can do. Bout time I got to doing them.
Tasha: Yes, this looks like a good spot.[br]Now I just need some straw.
Tasha: Now that's all taken care of.[br]Time to round up some recruits.
Tasha: Don't hunch over it! It's a sword, not a newborn!
Tasha: Hey Meyster, what is that stance you're using?
Tasha: Relax, you're doing fine.
Tasha: Ah, let him take five. I'm surprised to see him out here at all.
Tasha: That's nice, but I want to see you practice your single slash "maneuver".
Tasha: Sir Meyster is handling things today.
Tasha: Alright, let's see what you've learned!
Tasha: You would wait for a slow day to ask that.
Tasha: I'll say this about 'moneybags', he's learning to throw his weight around.
Tasha: The old knight must have been quite formidable in his prime.
Tasha: I may have to step in.
Tasha: Even just for the scarecrow's sake.
Tasha: It was getting a little too intense out here for me.
Tasha: So, um, so you think they are alive?
Tasha: I believe you.
Tasha: Shouldn't you be maintaining the scrying orb?
Tasha: But...
Tasha: Sir, please go back to your office.
Tasha: If you're this fond of quiet why didn't you just live further away?
Tasha: Don't get too used to it.
Tasha: You haven't figured it out yet?
Tasha: It's up to them now...
Tasha: He's... you didn't even give a warning!
Tasha: Hey! Who's messing around over here?
Tasha: It's you?
Tasha: They're looking all over for you![br]You just... went back to work?
Tasha: Job? You mean the sword...[br]For the cave.
Tasha: What's so important about this sword anyway?
Tasha: Who?
Tasha: I'm just going to leave you two to... whatever this is.
Tasha: There's a feast, if you care.
Tasha: Come along, we have much to celibrate.
Tasha: Honoring sacrafice is part of celibrating.
Tasha: You coming?
Tasha: Alright, wouldn't want to take you from your prize.
Tasha: So, you're really just abandoning us?
Tasha: A bit.[br]I had hoped...
Tasha: Hey, don't run yourself ragged now.
Tasha: And is gone again.
Tasha: Just Logos.
Tasha: And I'm not sure we've really gotten him back either.
Tasha: You're back?
Tasha: This is just how I look.
Tasha: You did it![br]Come on! Everyone wants to—
Tasha: You did it? You defeated the curse?
Tasha: Okay darling, let's all calm down. Come on out of there and let's all get something to eat.
Tasha: Nobody ever won a battle by themselves.
Tasha: Even a lone warrior wields a blade forged by another.
Tasha: Some days victory seems so far in the distance that you may never reach it.
Tasha: And sometimes, you won't.
Tasha: If you think something is truly worth having, you can even fight for someone else to have it.
Tasha: But you fight anyway. So that somewhere down the line, who knows how far, that victory will be gained.
Tasha: You think that's what I did?
Tasha: Douglass, me, and all the other warriors, we're just buying time.
Tasha: Pre-Consalidruim cathedrals keep cropping up. Someone has to find out why.
Tasha: We just kept them from blowing up before that.
Tasha: We're all just stepping stones.[br]There's nobility in that.
Tasha: Scarecrows are traditional.
Tasha: I'm not going to let it happen again.
Tasha: The next time disaster strikes,[br]well will be ready for it.
Tasha: No last minute solutions.[br]No half measures.
Tasha: I don't want our guards to be shown up by the next two-bit sellsword who breezes into town.
Tasha: Before, I could at least be relatively sure you'd survive a conflict.
Tasha: But now, I'm going to make sure you win!
Tasha: I've seen too many of my men die.
Tasha: I won't fool myself by thinking I've seen the last.
Tasha: But I'm going to make sure that death's going to have to fight for every last one of you.
Tasha: But make not mistake. I would see every one of you gruesomely slaughtered before I excuse harm coming to any of our citizens.
Tasha: The loss of any one person diminishes us all.
Tasha: Our infastructure.
Tasha: Our homes.
Tasha: Even out very souls.
Tasha: So any time you want to complain about the grueling training.
Tasha: The long hours.
Tasha: Or my bad attitude.
Tasha: I want you to do something.
Tasha: When you stagger home, before you collapse into your bed I want you to take a moment to look out your window.
Tasha: And When you see your neighbor out going for a walk.
Tasha: Or buying some worthless nick-nack.
Tasha: I want you to feel pride in your heart. To know that they can live their lives, not even thinking about the things you have to do.
Tasha: That's enough rest, now let's get back to work.
Tasha: Some of you may tell yourself "I am not a soldier."
Tasha: That is a lie.
Tasha: Anyone can be a soldier, with the proper motivation.
Tasha: Our king wants an army, and I'm going to give it to him.
Tasha: Years ago, I saw men and women who had never held a sword take up arms.
Tasha: They fought, and killed, and died.
Tasha: Why? Because their lives depended on it.
Tasha: That was the secret to their greatness.
Tasha: As of this moment. You are committed to victory, and your lives will depend on it.
Tasha: There is no turning back.
Tasha: You will conquer or you will die.
Tasha: And I, am here to make sure of that.
Tasha: Nobody wanted anyone to die.
Tasha: We did what we had to.[br]The cave was using them to block our path.
Tasha: Well, Jezerine said it was going to be some epic weapon.
Tasha: With both of them gone, I can't say.
Tasha: That's the trouble. If you're writing a story you can't do that!
Tasha: You can't have buildup with no payoff.[br]Or big events that just come out of nowhere.
Tasha: Like, who was that weird lady with the giant hat?
Tasha: Hrmph.[br]Now what?
Tasha: I would have liked to say I expected him to succeed.
Tasha: That was something else.
Tasha: Lot of things not getting done.
Tasha: Oh great, what's going on here?
Tasha: Looks like he finally got his head on right.
Tasha: So, we are to advance with leaps and bounds.
Tasha: I will stand strong, and never give ground.
Tasha: Strike and fade.
Tasha: Slow and steady... will probably get us all killed.
-=-=-=-=- LINES FOR Metra: -=-=-=-=-
Metra: Why is this happening?[br]Why is evil allowed to run rampant?
Metra: I see a few coins.[br]They were tossed in by devotees I suppose.
Metra: That's just Paul's reflection.
Metra: I'm not sure I see the light in all this.
Metra: I see some bears, looks like they're sleeping.
Metra: Oh right, those aren't actually bears are they?
Metra: Okay, I see monsters, but it's not a cave. I can tell because of the three suns.
Metra: But, but—We aren't done with the lessons!
Metra: Oh, it's fine.
Metra: Really? I wondered why he always looked so tired.
Metra: It's okay! I set it up to run on its own.
Metra: I know Douglass is alive, I just know it.
Metra: No doctor should have to work alone.
Metra: I'm looking for some straw. I feel like we're going to need some soon.
Metra: You should probably stand back.
Metra: Patrick returned quite ill.
Metra: Sometimes I worry that the lack of patients gives us too much time to think...
Metra: Fortunately, only a couple of sprains so far...
Metra: We're not exactly soldiers here.
Metra: What? It looked like fun.
Metra: I know we didn't want to need this place long, but you'd think someone would have cleaned it by now.
Metra: I was wondering if you could spare some pig-thistles.
Metra: Oh boy, the last time she got like this she started talking about trying to make a disease that fought other diseases.
Metra: Success or failure.[br]It feels like it's out of our hands.
Metra: Wow, she really did a number on this thing.
Metra: It's not hopeless, we can make this right.
Metra: I don't think I've ever seen dust in here before.
Metra: I swear I can still hear the hammer.
Metra: You know, I never realized how fascinating this stuff was.
Metra: I'm learning so much![br]Did you know that time is curved?
Metra: Yes, I think so.
Metra: Nah, it's okay.
Metra: It's going to work out... It has to.
Metra: Sheesh, I leave for a few days and everything gets out of order...
Metra: Well it's not like we can just round up everyone in town.
Metra: There has to be some way to see further...
Metra: Let’s see, this is probably just above where they... stopped.
Metra: If they weren't, do you think you'd be more helpful there, or here?
Metra: Oh! I know what's about to happen it's—
Metra: You did what you could. We are greatful.
Metra: Don't blame yourself for—
Metra: At least it's over now.
Metra: Hey, are you doing okay?
Metra: Okay everybody, today is a day to be happy! I've made a big meal and we can all celibrate.
Metra: Of course not.
Metra: Just had a good feeling about today.
Metra: Is anyone else in there?
Metra: Oh it's okay. I don't always save the day. Usually it's someone else.
Metra: There are thirty of us after all. Usually I don't even get a chance to try.
Metra: Well yes, that's this adventure. There are a whole bunch of others out there!
Metra: I'm glad I get to be experiencing this one though. It has been very exciting.
Metra: No, stay. We can talk about something right? How are folks recovering?
Metra: Because...
Metra: Because the interseting part is almost over.
Metra: And I don't know if anything comes after this.
Metra: ...
Metra: Not all of it.
Metra: We could have saved them all.
Metra: They were blocking a path.[br]But there was always more than one.
Metra: Maybe they weren't blocking the path to slow us down.
Metra: Maybe they were saying "no, don't go this way."
Metra: Douglass may have been pushing us to risk crossing that water tank.
Metra: Sara may have thought that there were doors better left closed.
Metra: Todd seemed to put himself in a place we didn't need to go.
Metra: Was he trying to survive, or stay out of our way?
Metra: Mara probably wanted to clock us over the head for running in circles.
Metra: Norma probably wanted us to stop messing with their puzzles and just rush through.
Metra: Was McDermit blocking that chest to stop us, or because it wasn't worth our time?
Metra: Doesn't Melvardius always tell us that overcoming our obstacles is better than removing them?
Metra: That hunter may have been trying to tell us we were going too far.
Metra: Was Derringer trying to block our shortcut, or remind us that we had found better one?
Metra: Maybe he wanted us to use the other path we had opened?
Metra: I'm sorry.
Metra: No.
Metra: I'm going to do better next time.
Metra: It didn't have to be this way.
Metra: It shouldn't have been this way.
Metra: Did I have to?
Metra: I don't think this could happen by accident.
Metra: Sure, it may take a lot of us to defeat the enemy, but this many? Maybe if care was taken... but it wasn't.
Metra: No, the mayor was right, we didn't do what we could. We did what we had to.
Metra: Someone wanted it to end this way.
Metra: I saved us, but by now any one of us could.
Metra: I think... I think each of you will get your turn after all.
Metra: No... I'm going to try again.[br]And I'm going to fail.
Metra: Then one of you will get a turn.
Metra: No... I'm not.
Metra: Someone wants to see how bad things can get.
Metra: I, I'm not sure...
Metra: I will not be the one that ends this, but I know we can still prevail.
Metra: Hidden beneath the earth, and hidden within it.
Metra: Fire can create or destroy.[br]Let's focus on destroy for now.
Metra: I feel as though this should have happened long ago.
-=-=-=-=- LINES FOR Wilson: -=-=-=-=-
Wilson: A pox spreads with those who leave. No, We are staying.[br]You won't talk us out of it.
Wilson: I have to stay but you should go son![br]A mayor always goes down with his town!
Wilson: Yes, very.
Wilson: Nelson, go home.
Wilson: Stop working. Here or anywhere.[br]Just go home.
Wilson: Rest.
Wilson: Can a friend?
Wilson: We all miss Jezerine.
Wilson: You'd miss her too.
Wilson: If you gave yourself time.
Wilson: So, shouldn't you be maintaining the viewing portal?
Wilson: Logos nearly wore himself out concentrating on keeping the view open.
Wilson: Oh no... what will we do now?
Wilson: Wait, what?
Wilson: Why are you giving it to me?
Wilson: I intend to stay here, but I won't hold you to the same.
Wilson: I had hoped the civilians would not be involved.
Wilson: It was a fool's hope.
Wilson: That boy's still out there isn't he?
Wilson: I had hoped... But now he won't have the chance to change his mind.
Wilson: I can keep going.[br]Just as we all must.
Wilson: I hear things are getting quite lively out there.
Wilson: The price of dealing with that cave has always been too high, it's still too high.
Wilson: There are those who risk their lives every day.
Wilson: Surely there were times when the people had to be rallied?
Wilson: I can think of so many things I should have done, but not anything I can do now.
Wilson: I know we don't agree on a few things Jezerine, but I appreciate your effort.
Wilson: I should have started doing this sooner!
Wilson: Ha! Take that straw man!
Wilson: I wonder if we can get more scarecrows...
Wilson: There is something we can do... if we all just train harder...
Wilson: We aren't going to fall apart!
Wilson: I'll break them first!
Wilson: Why close it down? There's still so much to... so much to...
Wilson: You left anyway![br]So what good was I?
Wilson: Just... leave me alone.
Wilson: This... hardly seems necessary.
Wilson: Well, I suppose that is worth looking at.
Wilson: We'll need to form a task force...
Wilson: Once people come back, we're going to have a lot of work ahead of us.
Wilson: This town has gotten complacent.[br]But that's going to change!
Wilson: We will get through this.[br]I mean... there wouldn't be any point planning ahead if we weren't...
Wilson: Well, I held out to the end...
Wilson: Todd! I was so worried. I thought we had lost you!
Wilson: Sounds wonderful, come along Mr... did we ever get your name?
Wilson: We didn't try to kill you. The cave's curse spread to you when you came near.
Wilson: Yes, we could have handled things better. Come with us and we'll celibrate and tell you everything.
Wilson: Sure the first step on any journey is the hardest.
Wilson: But that last step is pretty tricky too!
Wilson: Do we?
Wilson: Well, you lot go on without me.
Wilson: Thank goodness for small favors I suppose.
Wilson: Certainly, we'll help how we can, but now, let's just celibrate!
Wilson: Todd!
Wilson: It's okay, you're back. Everything else can wait.
Wilson: Is there anything we can do for you?
Wilson: Perhaps we could slow things down a bit?
Wilson: Perhaps this is a job for a professional appraiser?
Wilson: Alright, you heard the man!
Wilson: No time? But the threat is passed!
Wilson: Are you sure you won't stay?
Wilson: Wonderful! And what of the survivors?
Wilson: You... you are done. You can rest now.
Wilson: There are no monsters here. You have won.
Wilson: Sir! What are you—
Wilson: I'd heard you might be down here.
Wilson: How did you get rid of all the ice?
Wilson: Oh.
Wilson: Nothing to worry about there. 
Wilson: The rest of the staff has started to return, and they know how to take care of things.
Wilson: I would say that you have earened a vacation.[br]I just thought you might spend it somewhere a little more pleasant.
Wilson: So, what am I looking at here?
Wilson: This isn't cleaning anymore, it's anthropology.
Wilson: I thought I might find you here.
Wilson: No, just came to see them.
Wilson: Did something happen to the shrines?
Wilson: I did not think it had been so long?
Wilson: How often do you come out here?
Wilson: I'd heard you might be here.
Wilson: The family is here to sort through the estate.
Wilson: I've been asking them to wait.
Wilson: But I can't ask them to wait forever.
Wilson: They deserve the closure.[br]So do you.
Wilson: Nelson, they aren't coming ba—
Wilson: It doesn't work that way. Not this time.
Wilson: Yes yes, we get it.
Wilson: We don't have much to offer...
Wilson: Did you find anyone else in there?
Wilson: Well... you did what you could.
Wilson: Come on, we're going to have a feast down at the tavern!
Wilson: Well, that doesn't seem right.
Wilson: And the others?
Wilson: I know, but you did what you had to.
Wilson: No, Metra, it's over. You're safe.
Wilson: Moving on to the next item on our agenda, how are we to allocate the funds from the war chest?
Wilson: Yes, we know, but let's give some of the others a chance speak up.
Wilson: Nelson, I'll be putting you in charge of collecting and recording damages.
Wilson: We will begin to access those by the end of the week.
Wilson: So... next we need to... to.
Wilson: Oh, just getting back to work.
Wilson: It's time to put the town back together after all!
Wilson: Yes yes, everything has a place after all.
Wilson: It's just... like a puzzle.
Wilson: Like a puzzle with a few peices missing.
Wilson: It should be so simple.[br]Right?
Wilson: If Derringer had chosen to move away it's not like all metalwork would cease.
Wilson: Mara didn't run the only bar in town.[br]The others will be more than happy to pick up the slack.
Wilson: Melvardius was a pillar of the community.
Wilson: But, his order will send someone else to replace him.
Wilson: I don't even need to do anything.
Wilson: People will follow opportunities and keep the town running.
Wilson: Some of the people we lost weren't even from here.
Wilson: So they're not my responsibility.[br]Right?
Wilson: Then... then there are the people I don't even have to replace.
Wilson: The town will hardly notice if we're missing a guard, or a shepard, or a maid.
Wilson: The town will hardly notice if we're missing a guard, or a maid.
Wilson: The town will hardly notice if we're missing a shepard, or a maid.
Wilson: The town will hardly notice if we're missing a guard, or a shepard.
Wilson: The town will hardly notice if we're missing a maid.
Wilson: The town will hardly notice if we're missing a shepard.
Wilson: The town will hardly notice if we're missing a guard.
Wilson: I just, go back to being a mayor.
Wilson: Back to looking at the big picture.
Wilson: It doesn't matter if a few people were lost.
Wilson: It's all just numbers on a ledger.
Wilson: All... but one.
Wilson: The mayor wouldn't care.
Wilson: It's one less troublemaker.
Wilson: No longer stirring up trouble.
Wilson: No more... no more...
Wilson: I... can try.
Wilson: Can I live with that?
Wilson: ...and that concludes the minutes of our pervious meeting.
Wilson: Does anyone have something to add?
Wilson: Very well. Moving forward.
Wilson: At the conclusion of our previous meeting a comitte was organized to consider the future course of our fair town.
Wilson: The merits of reconstruction were to be weighed against the idea of shuttering the community.
Wilson: Calm down everyone. This is still in the committe stage.
Wilson: Nothing has to be decided right away.
Wilson: The argument for shuttering the town is that we currently lack the population to consider ourselves a village, lackluster leadership, and the proximity of a dangerous cave.
Wilson: The benefits of restoring the town are a return of economic activity, increased numbers to defend against external threats, and companionship.
Wilson: The cons of shuttering are that we would need to start over somewhere else as refugess.
Wilson: The cons of re-opening our town is that we will be called to account for our crimes by our former friends and neighbors.
Wilson: We will not undertake a preliminary vote to guage local support.
Wilson: For reconstruction?[br]Against?
Wilson: The vote has been counted.
Wilson: With one vote for shuttering the town, and zero against.
Wilson: Thank you, we will take this into consideration as we continue our deliberation.
Wilson: I can barely contain all this! But I must.
Wilson: No! we can't let them stop us now!
Wilson: I can't let this fire consume me. I will push on!
Wilson: Is this really as deep as we've gotten? We have to push on!
Wilson: But why? And how?
-=-=-=-=- LINES FOR Svenra: -=-=-=-=-
Svenra: That's what I said! I'm tired of your moping.
Svenra: Oh sure, not bothering anyone.
Svenra: Just sprinkling a little more doom and gloom around.
Svenra: Not bothering anyone at all.
Svenra: As I was saying...
Svenra: I told you to stay away. Isn’t there someone else you can bother?
Svenra: They’re gone? All of them?
Svenra: What?
Svenra: Well, it isn't terrible. I do want to be left alone.
Svenra: It's not like I wanted everyone to die for it.
Svenra: Tricked?
Svenra: Well, gotta go.
Svenra: Aye, keep your distance or I'll show you a curse of my own!
Svenra: Oh there you are.[br]Things are finally starting to get quiet around here.
Svenra: Just leave me alone.
Svenra: I wouldn't even be here if I could stand traveling.
Svenra: I don't like the looks of this.
Svenra: I had hoped things would get quieter around here.
Svenra: All that yelling and dumb whacking is scaring off the birds...
Svenra: Oh! So now you're saying I've been using magic to spy on people?
Svenra: Why does everybody want something from me?
Svenra: No, I ain't teachin' you to throw fireballs.
Svenra: Stop askin'.
Svenra: How dare you doubt my power!
Svenra: Stay off my lawn ya scarecrow!
Svenra: Don't look at me young'n.[br]I already did my part against the scarecrow menace.
Svenra: Was too good for 'em I say.
Svenra: There's usually so many people in here.[br]It's quiet now.
Svenra: Yes... it's all very quiet indeed.
Svenra: Of course I'm alright. I don't have to listen to that ruckus anymore.
Svenra: Eh, we all die sometime right?
Svenra: Eh, people have their uses.
Svenra: I would like to lodge a complaint.[br]The animals have been getting into my garden.
Svenra: And I think there should be policies in place![br]How do we stop this from happening again?
Svenra: Well, longer than the town has.
Svenra: You're welcome.
Svenra: besides, all that scarecrow choppin' was too noisy.
Svenra: Between you and me, I never did know what they were doing in here.
Svenra: What do you suppose will happen?[br]When there aren't any of us left?
Svenra: Somebody ought to keep working on this.
Svenra: His handwriting is terrible...
Svenra: Maybe it will be quiet...
Svenra: Look lad. It's not like they didn't know ya' were pinching things.[br]Play your cards right and they won't care.
Svenra: I thought she was tough to put up with before...
Svenra: How long has it been now?
Svenra: I Don't think they let you out just so you could sit here instead.
Svenra: Well, some folks got tired of waiting.
Svenra: figured I'd bring you some of the food before it got too cold.
Svenra: Now that he can take his time he doesn't have to share.
Svenra: So, you find enough treasure down there?
Svenra: Y'can barely stand. Let me get those shoes.
Svenra: How bout you?[br]You okay?
Svenra: What d'ya mean lass?
Svenra: What do you want?
Svenra: I gave back the ring.
Svenra: I don't know what you're talking about.
Svenra: I got nothing for you.
Svenra: Oh sure, you don't want any of my heirlooms.
Svenra: So, don't mess with them then.[br]You can start by not messing with me.
Svenra: No, and you don't either.
Svenra: So? What does this have to do with me?
Svenra: I'll think about it. 
Svenra: Why not? Won't be the least healthy thing that's happened to me today.
Svenra: You lot are lucky Mara's still around.
Svenra: Doubt any of you even knows what goes into her drinks.
Svenra: The place isn't going to be the same without her.
Svenra: Did she get around to telling anyone her secret recipies?
Svenra: She never was big on writing stuff down.
Svenra: Shame everyone can't be here.
Svenra: That hero who came to town.
Svenra: He must have done this a few times before.
Svenra: Just bad luck we're the one that did him in.
Svenra: That squire was barely a man but already so tired of everything.
Svenra: Could you imagine if he'd lived as long as I have?
Svenra: It's a shame about that guard.
Svenra: Somebody's going to have to look after his garden.
Svenra: He always was so proud of those roses. 
Svenra: Don't know if the cows'll listen to anyone else now that Norma's gone.
Svenra: Yaknow she had nicknames for all of 'em?
Svenra: Sara was too good for this town.
Svenra: I swear she was terrified of people ever finding her not working!
Svenra: Used to let her take naps in my cottage where folks couldn't see her, poor thing.
Svenra: I'm not going to miss that blacksmith's hammering.
Svenra: But I always thought those nicknacks he put together were nice.
Svenra: Never did quite see eye to eye with that preacher.
Svenra: Was nice that he came by to check up on me though. 
Svenra: Todd was a good kid. A bit odd, but he had a good heart.
Svenra: Makes me wish I never loaned him those old books.
Svenra: That hunter didn't even know what he was getting into.
Svenra: Think I've seen him around a time or two.
Svenra: Name was Devon wasn't it?
Svenra: I don't.
Svenra: I just... notice things.
Svenra: Is there really nowhere else you lot could have this talk?
Svenra: So good of ya' to notice.
Svenra: Are you lot done packing yet?
Svenra: Aye.
Svenra: You don't have to go, but I doubt you'll much like your new neighbors.
Svenra: Seems we've been squatting on someone else's land.
Svenra: They're coming to reclaim it.
Svenra: As they were? Nah.
Svenra: I think I like them better this way.
Svenra: They're my kind of people. Tireless, obediant.
Svenra: And most of all, quiet.
Svenra: Soon as I'm done here I can really make'm train.
Svenra: Feh, my arthritis was bad enough.
Svenra: Never could put on a show like this before.
Svenra: Young’uns couldn't even take this down?
-=-=-=-=- LINES FOR Patrick: -=-=-=-=-
Patrick: But I have to try something!
Patrick: How can that be bothering you?
Patrick: At least I'm quiet about it.
Patrick: You? You recommend amputations for everything!
Patrick: You wanted to cut off the mayor's nose to cure his cold!
Patrick: You named your bone saw.
Patrick: And then there's your 'bacterial coliseum' theory.
Patrick: just pretend they're all patients.
Patrick: Go on the road. Tell people they can come back.
Patrick: If they made it.
Patrick: Things had... gotten bad before I turned back.
Patrick: So, what about you?
Patrick: If they can, they will.
Patrick: My wagon... all of us got sick...[br]I shouldn't have come back...
Patrick: The others got too sick to travel.[br]What's going to happen to the town I dropped them off at?
Patrick: Stupid curse, stupid disease, I just wanted to... argh!
Patrick: What do you do when everything you've done to help just makes things worse?
Patrick: I just... not now okay?
Patrick: I don't know what's happening beyond this town... but I know I made it worse.
Patrick: I still feel sick, but only a little bit... Ever since I got back.
Patrick: I've been asking around. Other people feel ill too.[br]Not terrible, but not great.
Patrick: I'm... I'm sorry.
Patrick: Do you think they're okay?
Patrick: Just pretend it's a slimy monster.
Patrick: Great, the town is dying, and she's making gross sandwiches.
Patrick: Does it want to keep us here? Is that what's going on?
Patrick: What do you have to regret? You told me not to leave![br]You were right!
Patrick: Why won't the cave take me?[br]Is it because I left?
Patrick: Look, I still don't want to talk about it.
Patrick: There's got to be something... anything...
Patrick: Oh, uh hey.
Patrick: Hope you don't mind...[br]But they're not your scarecrows anyway right?
Patrick: Hey, um. Is there something I can do to help?
Patrick: A month ago I would have said it was the safety.
Patrick: Yeah, hardly any monsters in the wilds around here.
Patrick: I... don't know.
Patrick: Yeah, I pretty much just relax once I get past this area here... (looking at map with pins)
Patrick: The safe area isn't the town...[br]The town is in the safe area...(looking at map with pins)
Patrick: It definitely looks like the safe zone is centered on that shrine.(looking at map with pins)
Patrick: I... tried.
Patrick: Where have you been? We were getting scared that you...
Patrick: I'm not sure there's room.
Patrick: I'm no healer, but I can set up cots, carry things...
Patrick: We'll have a celibration ready for you when you're up to it.
Patrick: You've got some, uh... slime.
Patrick: It's coming out of that box there.
Patrick: I could help you repack it.
Patrick: Hey, the way I see it, we were looking for someone to come save us.
Patrick: And someone did.
Patrick: So, let's have a bit of celibration for our hero.
Patrick: You killed them?
Patrick: You wouldn't...
Patrick: Well... thanks.
Patrick: Um, disease?
Patrick: You did it! the town is saved!
Patrick: Hey, we all did what we could.
Patrick: Should we try to stop her?
Patrick: Packing?
Patrick: Yes, um, I'll get my things together.
Patrick: Could use a hand here!
Patrick: Sure, fine. We'll talk about it over some drinks later.[br]Now give me a hand.
Patrick: There's a lot of people down here, they need help.
Patrick: Here and there. We need a plan.
Patrick: Last time I made a plan it didn't work out so well.
Patrick: Okay, okay.
Patrick: The doctor. She has to have some gurneys around, right?
Patrick: It's pretty crazy down there, we'll need to build some bridges.
Patrick: Gather up some lumber.
Patrick: We have time, but not forever.
Patrick: I'm going back in. I can get a few.[br]We'll have to prioitize finding the people who can help.
Patrick: But...
Patrick: Yes, I can do it.
Patrick: Get some lumber. I'll be back soon.
Patrick: There's still work to do.
Patrick: You want to help me with this box?
Patrick: I've got to get going.
Patrick: Goodbyes would just slow me down.
Patrick: ...
Patrick: Yeah.
Patrick: We just need someone to spread the word to the surrounding towns.
Patrick: I'm the most qualified.
Patrick: Look, either help with the box or just leave me alone.
Patrick: Yeah, I know.
Patrick: Of course none of it was my fault.
Patrick: But... if you lost a patient to consumption.[br]It would hurt.
Patrick: Even if it wasn't your fault.
Patrick: I'll see you soon.
Patrick: I mean it.
Patrick: It's done.
Patrick: Nothing's alive down there anymore.[br]So, safe enough, I guess.
Patrick: Nothing.
Patrick: I'm leaving. Got room in the wagon, you two coming?
Patrick: "Better late than never." Isn't that what you all kept telling me?
Patrick: You took my friends, and now I'm coming for you.
Patrick: It hurts, but I can use this...
Patrick: The fever had nothing on this.
Patrick: We have to do better. It can't all have been in vain.
Patrick: Should we leave town then? It might take one of us instead of you.
Patrick: He didn't come "in time", he failed.
Patrick: So? What can we do with that?
Patrick: He didn't come "in time," he failed.
Patrick: So? What can we do with that?
-=-=-=-=- LINES FOR Tristana: -=-=-=-=-
Tristana: What do you think of the current crisis?
Tristana: It seems like a hopeless situation. Why don't you evacuate?
Tristana: That's it? You've just been here since?
Tristana: So, you know mayorship isn't heritable right?
Tristana: You have to admit, this would be a great way to do investigative reporting.
Tristana: So, you're a schoolteacher, what inspired you to take up a sword?
Tristana: You'd like to?
Tristana: Hey, can we talk?
Tristana: Off the record.
Tristana: What would you say is your biggest regret?
Tristana: So, how did you end up here?
Tristana: What inspired you to stay when you are too old to contribute?
Tristana: So, how goes the training. Has the town truly rallied together?
Tristana: Here, it's all that I've written so far.
Tristana: Because I know I won't leave without it. And now that I know your stories...[br]I don't want to just leave you behind.
Tristana: Go on sir, it's your turn.
Tristana: But why didn't you try to do something before the curse happened?
Tristana: Not really...
Tristana: Does it make you as happy as you thought it would?
Tristana: You’re always telling people to leave, and now they have.
Tristana: So, you tricked everyone into thinking you had evil magical powers just to get privacy?
Tristana: Ma'm please, I've interview witches before. I know what one looks like.
Tristana: Don't worry. I won't tell anyone.
Tristana: So, what are you going to do when this is all over?
Tristana: If they made it?
Tristana: I figure... start to rebuild. I don't want to see this place just fade away.
Tristana: I just want to know what happened to the people who left with you.
Tristana: That's okay, neither do I.
Tristana: What would you say is the best thing about this town?
Tristana: Safety?
Tristana: Why not?
Tristana: Yeah.
Tristana: You're not supposed to.
Tristana: I'm supposed to be the objective observer.
Tristana: Stay in the background.[br]Keep my feelings out of it.
Tristana: Don't get involved.
Tristana: I don't think I did any of it right.
Tristana: ...
Tristana: Well, time to get involved.
Tristana: Oh hey! I just need a moment! So, what is it about the mayor that has inspired you to be so faithful?
Tristana: So, how did you end up here?
Tristana: Don't worry, You'll have your turn.
Tristana: Don't worry, You'll have your turn.
Tristana: Don't worry, You'll have your turn.
Tristana: Don't worry, You'll have your turn.
Tristana: Don't worry, You'll have your turn.
Tristana: Don't worry, You'll have your turn.
Tristana: Oh hey! I've been meaning to talk to you! What is sir Meyster really like?
Tristana: Don't worry, You'll have your turn.
Tristana: Don't worry, You'll have your turn.
Tristana: Don't worry, You'll have your turn.
Tristana: Don't worry, You'll have your turn.
Tristana: Don't worry, You'll have your turn.
Tristana: Sorry... I'm a bit busy.
Tristana: I'll... I'll get to you soon.
Tristana: Hey, so... are you doing okay?
Tristana: ...
Tristana: Don't worry, I'll... get around to it.
Tristana: So... What makes this town stick together?[br]In the face of all this?
Tristana: Hey... how are you?
Tristana: So, I wanted to ask some questions, about the people who are gone.
Tristana: These records are fascinating.[br]This place looked a lot different a few generations ago.
Tristana: So, the town was founded because there aren't many monsters here...[br]Could I get a record of the incidents that have happened?
Tristana: Well, time for the inside story...
Tristana: Wait! Is... is this just going to be a normal sermon?
Tristana: You just smote like a hundred monsters, and you're not even going to talk about it?
Tristana: You did it! You defeated the curse!
Tristana: Now, if I could just ask you a few questions. While the whole experience is fresh.
Tristana: You did it! You defeated the curse!
Tristana: Now, if I could just ask you a few questions. While the—
Tristana: How was it?
Tristana: Hey! You made it out!
Tristana: Right, right, but what did YOU do to defeat the monsters?
Tristana: Yes, you do keep telling me that...
Tristana: Ugh.[br]Give me a minute to go over my notes.
Tristana: So, what was going through your head as you fought the monsters?
Tristana: Why did you suffer?
Tristana: I'm not sure I understand.
Tristana: So... you were thinking about how it was a team effort?
Tristana: You're not giving me much I can use here...
Tristana: Yes... you slew the monsters in the cavern. Let's talk about that, what was going through your mind as you bravely—
Tristana: But, they were dead before you got there. So it wasn't—
Tristana: Um, a few days ago I remember you talking about restoring the town. Do you have any plans to—
Tristana: Well... do you still want to be mayor?
Tristana: Okay then. I think I have... something.
Tristana: I'll let you know if it goes to print.
Tristana: No, I don't think that will be nessissary.
Tristana: So, what happened next?
Tristana: What about the institute they're setting up?
Tristana: And...?
Tristana: That's pretty good right?
Tristana: Like what?
Tristana: Well, I'm sure they'll come up with something eventaully.
Tristana: So, how are you?
Tristana: No, just me.
Tristana: So, a harrowing underground experience might be just what you needed?
Tristana: But you're still doing the same things you used to.
Tristana: But you are still doing them.
Tristana: That's a bit of an extreeme way to say it, isn't it?
Tristana: So... what next?
Tristana: Hello? Are you there?
Tristana: Look, I know you told me to stop coming by.
Tristana: But, are you okay?
Tristana: I know, I know.
Tristana: It's just, I can't think of anything else to ask.
Tristana: They say you haven't been out in days.
Tristana: I'm sorry I wasn't there for you.[br]I was... I was sad. So many people died.
Tristana: It wasn't your fault! Everyone else is safe because of you.
Tristana: Not just us. People are starting to come back.
Tristana: They want to meet you.
Tristana: You saved us Jinn.
Tristana: Can... can you just say something?
Tristana: Anything! Please!
Tristana: Jinn! No!
Tristana: What did you seee down there?[br]What was the—
Tristana: How what all began?
Tristana: Next time?
Tristana: I decided to stop asking that days ago.
Tristana: Bold of you to assume that we could.
Tristana: Is that...?
Tristana: You don't really think you're bringing them back do you?
Tristana: You're back!
Tristana: Where are they?
Tristana: Seriously? You saved the day, divot replaced.
Tristana: This is a transportation issue, that's your job.
Tristana: On it.
Tristana: Hey, we're going to get them all out. You can do it.
Tristana: We're safe?
Tristana: If people want to see the knight save the day I have plenty of other novels they can read.
Tristana: Too many really.
Tristana: I didn't expect the Cursed Cave genre to take off like it did.
Tristana: But, I'll stop writing them when they stop selling.
Tristana: It certainly does not.
Tristana: Any idea where I should take the next book?
Tristana: That was a fun one, but what about you?
Tristana: Oh? I wouldn't have expected that. Have you read the one about the schoolteacher?
Tristana: Oh yeah, I hear that one's pretty hard to find these days.[br]It's out there though.
Tristana: You'd think it would be easier to write a story I lived through.
Tristana: So much happened that was important... but not, like, narratively important.
Tristana: I'm going to, but I can't just put everything in.
Tristana: I wouldn't tell people what we all had for breakfast every day.
Tristana: The trouble is, a string of events in real life doesn't always wrap up with a neat little bow.
Tristana: There are always going to be things that we don't know.
Tristana: Like, what was up with that sword Derringer was working on?
Tristana: Did anyone else think that Devon was going to be a lot more interesting?
Tristana: Oh! Uh, didn't see you there.
Tristana: No offense.
Tristana: What about that myterious hunter who came to town?
Tristana: Like, I probably shouldn't make stuff up, but we really don't know anything about that guy.
Tristana: Sure, but pacing.
Tristana: I'm going to try, but maybe some stories a medium specific.
Tristana: Maybe? There's got to be something out there, but I can't put my finger on it.
Tristana: I know.
Tristana: No, I'm not done yet.
Tristana: Well, I'll pay for this one too then.
Tristana: Just take it. You don't know anything about "guilty."
Tristana: Because, I'm not done yet.
Tristana: A good character. They live on in our memories.[br]Their story goes on in the hearts of those who read about them.
Tristana: I'll be done when all of them get to survive.[br]At least, some small part of them.
Tristana: Not many stories left to tell.
Tristana: Not much left to do now.
Tristana: I wonder if they've found anything.
Tristana: Just counting down now.
Tristana: So, time to flip a coin?
Tristana: I got it, but I can barely hold it together. The next one might be up to you.
Tristana: If I know anything about stories, we aren't near the end yet...
Tristana: Hope I can still hold a quill after this. Feels like I might burn anything I touch.
Tristana: It... it just got colder.
-=-=-=-=- LINES FOR Elder: -=-=-=-=-
Elder: I see myself wandering the town, but everything looks... simpler.
Elder: I'm not the spry young man I once was.
Elder: Yes, I understa—
Elder: Yes, I get—
Elder: I GET IT!
Elder: You tried... it's all any of us can do.
Elder: So! How long have those old places been around anyway?
Elder: Here's a map, get markin' where they all are!
Elder: I just hope they're still alive in there. Maybe we can all come back.
Elder: Waiting?
Elder: You know. You've done a lot of your interviews, but I'm not sure we got to know too much about you.
Elder: Yes, it was very unprofessional.
Elder: Make sure to be unprofessional.
Elder: The fires are out.
Elder: Everything's stowed away.
Elder: And it will either matter or it won't.
Elder: I have seen some hard times, but none like this.
Elder: Just looking to clear my head.
Elder: This town has always been so safe...
Elder: Smart man, but he'd let himself starve if someone didn't take care of him.
Elder: When I was young, my brother tricked me into wearing an outfit like this and chasing birds out of our field.
Elder: It's good to see people taking action.
Elder: This isn't as easy as he makes it look.
Elder: It's too quiet here. This place used to be so noisy.
Elder: Why ask me for advice? I would not have known what to do in days like these.
Elder: Best I can hope is buy another day for the fighters.
Elder: So, Patrick thinks we're still sick?
Elder: How did this window get broken?
Elder: Hey, I'm busy here you dimension hopping weirdo.
Elder: Have you seen the mayor? I mean, I can't really say things are getting behind.
Elder: I... don't know if this is healthy.
Elder: It happens so slow, it's hard to notice anyone's gone at first...
Elder: Why don't we head back sir? I can help with whatever you need.
Elder: Well, be careful what you wish for.
Elder: Have you seen anyone else come from outside?
Elder: I mean, it's not unusual...[br]But I would feel better if we heard from the other towns.
Elder: Not much to see right now.
Elder: Oh? Not looking for gossip now?
Elder: Excuse me, it's gotten sort of busy here.
Elder: There aren't many of us left...
Elder: It even feels a bit colder now.
Elder: I can't quite make heads or tails of this.
Elder: Time just keeps going...
Elder: I'll do my best when it's my turn.
Elder: Last one out should turn off the lights.
Elder: And... that's all.
Elder: Sure, sure... they're just a bit... intense.
Elder: Is he still in there?
Elder: You've done it?[br]Broken the evil curse?
Elder: Did the others...?
Elder: Look at it this way. Everybody's happy.
Elder: Who... who was...
Elder: Metra, what's wrong?
Elder: Nobody wanted this. But I doubt any of us would have survived if it weren't for you.
Elder: It's okay, it's over.
Elder: What is going on in there?
Elder: Ah! Svenra you're looking...[br]Well.
Elder: The scrying cut off after you—
Elder: What's going on?
Elder: What is the plan?
Elder: I'll go look.
Elder: Nothing?
Elder: What... what do we do now?
Elder: Is it over?
Elder: Only just in time though.
Elder: We have won, but it has cost us.
Elder: Well, that's done.
Elder: Guess I'll just...
Elder: Well, that's done...
Elder: Never thought I'd be the last to go.
Elder: If I hurry... maybe I can still make it.
Elder: At least we have done something.
Elder: At least we can leave ashes instead of dust.
Elder: I worry that this may be too little too late.
Elder: We can try.
Elder: We can try.